A dissemination workshop for introducing young Italian students to NLP
Lucio Messina
Independent Researcher
lucio.messina@autistici.org
Lucia Busso
Aston University
l.busso@aston.ac.uk
Claudia Roberta Combei
University of Bologna
claudiaroberta.combei@unibo.it
Ludovica Pannitto
University of Trento
ludovica.pannitto@unitn.it
Alessio Miaschi
University of Pisa
alessio.miaschi@phd.unipi.it
Gabriele Sarti
University of Trieste
gsarti@sissa.it
Malvina Nissim
University of Groningen
m.nissim@rug.nl
Abstract
We describe and make available the game-
based material developed for a laboratory run
at several Italian science festivals to popularize
NLP among young students.
1
Introduction
The present paper aims at describing in detail the
teaching materials developed and used for a series
of interactive dissemination workshops on NLP
and computational linguistics1. These workshops
were designed and delivered by the authors on be-
half of the Italian Association for Computational
Linguistics (AILC, www.ai-lc.it), with the
aim of popularizing Natural Language Processing
(NLP) among young Italian students (13+) and the
general public. The workshops were run in the
context of nationwide popular science festivals and
open-day events both onsite (at BergamoScienza,
and Scuola Internazionale Superiore di Studi Avan-
zati [SISSA], Trieste) and online (at Festival della
Scienza di Genova, the BRIGHT European Re-
searchers’ Night, high school ITS Tullio Buzzi in
Prato and the second edition of Science Web Festi-
val, engaging over 700 participants in Center and
Northern Italy from 2019 to 2021.2
The core approach of the workshop remained
the same throughout all the events. However, the
materials and activities were adapted to a variety
of different formats and time-slots, ranging from
30 to 90 minutes. We ﬁnd that this workshop –
1In this discussion, and throughout the paper, we conﬂate
the terms Natural Language Processing and Computational
Linguistics and use them interchangeably.
2Links to events are in the repository’s README ﬁle.
thanks to its modular nature – can ﬁt different tar-
get audiences and different time slots, depending
on the level of interactive engagement required
from participants and on the level of granularity
of the presentation itself. Other than on the level
of engagement expected of participants, time re-
quired can also vary depending on the participants’
background and metalinguistic awareness.
Our interactive workshops took the form of mod-
ular games where participants, guided by trained
tutors, acted as if they were computers that had to
recognize speech and text, as well as to generate
written sentences in a mysterious language they
knew nothing about.
The present contribution only describes the
teaching materials and provide a general outline
of the activities composing the workshop. For a
detailed discussion and reﬂection on the workshop
genesis and goals and on how it was received by
the participants see (Pannitto et al., 2021).
The teaching support consist in an interactive
presentation plus hands-on material, either in hard-
copy or digital form. We share a sample presen-
tation3 and an open-access repository4 containing
both printable materials to download and scripts to
reproduce them on different input data.
2
Workshop and materials
The activity contains both more theoretical and
hands-on parts, which are cast as games.
3https://docs.google.com/presentation/
d/1ebES_K8o3I2ND_1iMyBlQmrH733eQ6m_
K8a0tON8reo/edit?usp=sharing
4https://bitbucket.org/melfnt/
malvisindi
arXiv:2104.12405v2  [cs.CL]  14 May 2021

Awareness
The ﬁrst part consists of a brief intro-
duction to (computational) linguistics, focusing on
some common misconceptions (slides 3-5), and on
examples of linguistic questions (slides 6-12). Due
to their increasing popularity, we chose vocal as-
sistants as practical examples of NLP technologies
accounting for how humans and machines differ
in processing speech in particular and language in
general (slides 20-39).
Games
The core of the activity is inspired by the
word salad puzzle (Radev and Pustejovsky, 2013)
and is organized as a game revolving around a fun-
damental problem in NLP: given a set of words,
participants are asked to determine the most likely
ordering for a sentence containing those words.
This is a trivial problem when approached in a
known language (i.e., consider reordering the to-
kens garden, my, is, the, in, dog), but an apparently
impossible task when semantics is not accessible,
which is the most common situation for simple
NLP algorithms.
To make participants deal with language as a
computer would do, we asked them to compose
sentences using tokens obtained by transliterating
and annotating 60 sentences from the well known
fairy tale "Snow White" to a set of symbols. We
produced two possible versions of the masked ma-
terials: either replacing each word with a random
sequence of DINGs (e.g. ?o§= for the word morn-
ing) or replacing them with a corresponding non-
word (for example croto for the word morning).
The grammatical structure of each sentence is repre-
sented by horizontal lines on top of it representing
phrases (such as noun or verb phrases), while the
parts of speech are indicated by numbers from 0 to
9 placed as superscripts on each word (Figure 1).
Figure 1: The ﬁrst sentence of the corpus "on a
snowy day a queen was sewing by her
window" translated using DINGs (above) and using
non-words (below)
Participants were divided into two teams, one
team would be working on masked Italian and the
other on masked English. Both teams were given
the corpus in A3 format and were told that the texts
are written in a ﬁctional language.
Two activities were then run, focusing on two
Figure 2: Example cards, both showing a word. Left:
a card for the ﬁrst activity, with a button loop to thread
it in a sentence. Right: a card for the second activity,
with part of speech (number) at the bottom.
Figure 3: Possible rules extracted from the corpus.
Each rule is made of felt strips for phrases, cards with
numbers for parts of speech, and “=” cards.
different algorithms for sentence generation. In
the ﬁrst, participants received a deck of cards each
equipped with a button loop (Figure 2) and show-
ing a token from the corpus. Participants had to
create new valid sentences by rearranging the cards
according to the bigrams’ distribution in the cor-
pus. Using the bracelet method (slides 52-61), they
could physically thread tokens into sentences.
In the second activity (slides 63-92), the partici-
pants extracted grammatical rules from the corpus,
and used them to generate new sentences. In or-
der to write the grammar, participants were given
felt strips reproducing the colors of the annotation,
a deck of cards with numbers (identifying parts
of speech) and a deck of “=” symbols (Figure 3).
With a new deck of words (Figure 2), not all present
in the corpus, participants had to generate a sen-
tence using the previously composed rules.
Reﬂection and Outlook
By superimposing a
plexiglass frame on the A3 corpus pages (Figure 4),
the true nature of the corpora was eventually re-
vealed. The participants could see the original texts
(in Italian and English) and translate the sentences
they had created previously.
The activity ended with a discussion of recent
NLP technologies and their commercial applica-
tions (slides 93-96), and of what it takes to become
a computational linguist today (slides 97-99).

Figure 4: A session of the workshop: the original lan-
guage of the corpus has just been revealed by superim-
posing plexiglass supports on the corpus tables.
3
Activity Preparation
The preparation of the activity consists of several
steps: (1) creating and tagging the corpora with
morpho-syntactic and syntactic categories as de-
scribed in the repository; (2) choosing the words to
include in the card decks: these must be manually
selected but scripts are provided to generate possi-
ble sentences based on bigram co-occurrences, and
to extract all the possible grammar rules present in
the annotation; (3) when the produced sentences
and grammar are satisfactory, scripts are provided
to generate (i) the printable formats of corpora and
decks of cards, (ii) a dictionary to support the trans-
lation of sentences in the last part of the work-
shop, and (iii) clear-text corpora; (4) sentences
from the clear-text corpora have to be manually
cut and glued on a transparent support that can be
superimposed on the printed corpora to reveal the
sentences; (5) ﬁnally, some manual work is neces-
sary: producing strips of felt or any material with
the same colors used in the corpus; cutting threads;
attaching a button loop to the relevant cards, etc.
4
Reusability
In the spirit of open science and to encourage the
popularization of NLP, the teaching materials and
source code are freely available in our repository
(see footnotes 2-3 for the links). The print-ready
material is released under CC BY-NC; the source
code is distributed under the GNU gpl license ver-
sion 3. All scripts work for Python versions 3.6 or
above and the overall process requires python3,
lualatex, pdftk and pdfnup as detailed in
the README.md ﬁle in the repository, which con-
tains all necessary instructions.
Acknowledgements
We would like to thank the board of the Italian As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics (AILC) for
the support given to the workshop development and
delivery. We are also grateful to BergamoScienza,
Festival della Scienza di Genova, Science Web Fes-
tival for hosting the activity during the festivals; to
ILC-CNR “Antonio Zampolli" and ColingLab (Uni-
versity of Pisa) for hosting us during the European
Night of Research; and to the Scuola Internazionale
Superiore di Studi Avanzati (SISSA) and ITI Tullio
Buzzi for hosting our activities with their students.
We also thank Dr. Mirko Lai, who has collaborated
on the development of the web interface for the
online versions of our activity.
References
Ludovica Pannitto, Lucia Busso, Claudia Roberta
Combei, Lucio Messina, Alessio Miaschi, Gabriele
Sarti, and Malvina Nissim. 2021.
Teaching NLP
with bracelets and restaurant menus: An interactive
workshop for italian students. In Proceedings of the
Fifth Workshop on Teaching NLP and CL, Online
event. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Dragomir Radev and James Pustejovsky. 2013. Puzzles
in logic, languages and computation: the red book.
Springer.
