 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Deep Transfer Learning & Beyond: Transformer Language Models in 
Information Systems Research 
Deep Transfer Learning & Beyond 
Transformer Language Models in Information Systems Research 
Ross Gruetzemacher 
Wichita State University, W. Frank Barton School of Business, ross.gruetzemacher@wichita.edu 
David Paradice 
Auburn University, Harbert College of Business, dparadice@auburn.edu 
AI is widely thought to be poised to transform business, yet current perceptions of the scope of this transformation may be 
myopic. Recent progress in natural language processing involving transformer language models (TLMs) offers a potential 
avenue for AI-driven business and societal transformation that is beyond the scope of what most currently foresee. We review 
this recent progress as well as recent literature utilizing text mining in top IS journals to develop an outline for how future IS 
research can benefit from these new techniques. Our review of existing IS literature reveals that suboptimal text mining 
techniques are prevalent and that the more advanced TLMs could be applied to enhance and increase IS research involving 
text data, and to enable new IS research topics, thus creating more value for the research community. This is possible 
because these techniques make it easier to develop very powerful custom systems and their performance is superior to 
existing methods for a wide range of tasks and applications. Further, multilingual language models make possible higher 
quality text analytics for research in multiple languages. We also identify new avenues for IS research, like language user 
interfaces, that may offer even greater potential for future IS research.  
CCS CONCEPTS • Information Systems ~ Information Systems Applications ~ Data Mining • Information Systems 
~ Information Retrieval  
Additional Keywords and Phrases: natural language processing, text mining, artificial intelligence, deep learning, 
transfer learning, language models 
1 INTRODUCTION 
There is tremendous hype about artificial intelligence (AI) and its potential to transform business. However, 
many organizations have struggled to see real benefits to their bottom lines due to AI initiatives [Fountaine 
2019]. While Fountaine et al. are correct to suggest that organizations need to change their culture to reap the 
benefits of AI, it is also true that many of the benefits of AI have yet to be realized because the technology is 
still in its nascency and research progress continues at a rapid pace. There is no apparent reason to suspect 

2 
this progress to slow, either, and leading organizations in business consulting, economics and policy all foresee 
AI-driven transformative change in business on the horizon. 
Rapid progress in the use of deep learning – the AI technique driving current progress – for image 
processing and speech recognition in the early-to-mid-2010s was impressive, and progress in deep 
reinforcement learning has drawn a lot of media attention by demonstrating superhuman performance in a 
number of games [Silver 2017; LeCun 2015]. Yet, it is debatable as to whether the perceived progress is living 
up to the hype in practice. While deep learning certainly has valuable applications in business operations and 
business analytics [Kraus 2020], it has not yet led to significant productivity gains [Brynjolfsson 2020].  
However, there is reason to think that recent progress in the use of pretrained language models, which 
emerged in 2018, may be different. Anya Belz, in the opening keynote of the 2019 International Conference on 
Natural Language Generation, only days after the release of the most powerful generative language model to 
date, T5 [Raffel 2020], openly asked “Did T5 just solve general natural language generation?” [Belz 2019]. This 
question was not made in jest, rather, it was delivered with a sense of dismay; progress truly is being made at 
a rate which many who have worked on the problem for a long time find unnerving. T5 is no longer the most 
powerful generative language model, and its successor, GPT-3 [Brown 2020], may have improved even further 
beyond T5 than it had improved beyond its predecessors. 
The three primary reasons to believe that this recent progress is different are not evidenced by the nature 
of the progress alone but in large part by the nature of how these techniques naturally fit into organizations’ 
operations. First, organizations create and collect large amounts of unstructured data. This data is widely 
thought to contain information that, if harnessed, could be very valuable. For this reason, even moderately 
effective text mining techniques are already able to deliver tremendous value to organizations in numerous 
domains ranging from policy [Ngai 2016] to finance [Kraus 2017] to biomedical engineering [Gonzalez 2015]. 
Second, this new generation of pretrained language models harnesses the enormous potential of unsupervised 
and semi-supervised learning [Collobert 2008]. This means that these models can be initially trained in an 
unsupervised fashion on very large corpora and then later they can be fine-tuned (i.e., deep transfer learning) 
on an organization’s labeled, task-specific data so that they outperform existing text mining techniques for a 
variety of tasks specific to the organization’s needs. Third, progress in this area is showing no signs of slowing 
down, and more advanced capabilities from increasingly powerful systems may continue for some time [Kaplan 
2020]. Examples include chatbots’ capabilities which are likely to bring long anticipated language user 
interfaces (LUIs) [Brennan 1991] to a wide variety of human-computer interactions, and few-shot learning 
capabilities that can reduce the training and skills required for using language models while creating the 
possibility of truly novel applications. 
This paper is intended for researchers and practitioners who are interested in any type of business research 
that may benefit from analysis of large amounts of unstructured text data (e.g., emails, reviews, social media 
posts) as well as those interested in applications of LUIs, both practically and in information systems (IS) 
research. This study makes several contributions: 
1. 
It identifies and reviews the state-of-the-art literature for a powerful application of deep learning that 
has not yet been effectively incorporated into the toolbox of IS researchers. 
2. 
It conducts a literature review of existing work in leading IS journals using text mining, clearly identifying 
limitations of existing work and the benefits of using the new tools. 

3 
3. 
It proposes concrete research ideas that go beyond simply improving existing work to offer new 
directions for researchers and practitioners to explore. 
No text mining or NLP experience is necessary for readers of this article1, but we do assume that readers 
are familiar with the concepts of neural networks and deep learning. In the remainder of the paper we first 
survey the recent progress that has led to these powerful new tools. We next survey extant applications of text 
mining for business analytics and IS research. We then consider recent applications of these new tools within 
a discussion of their implications for both research and practice. We follow the discussion by summarizing its 
salient elements, including the most promising avenues for future work, and finally we leave concluding remarks.  
2 RECENT PROGRESS IN NEURAL LANGUAGE MODELS 
The subfield of machine learning known as computational linguistics or natural language processing (NLP) has 
been one of the primary focuses for AI researchers since the beginning of the study of AI: the first conference 
on machine translation preceded even the 1956 Dartmouth workshop, thought of as a seminal event for the 
birth of the field, and the necessity of NLP for AI was clear as early as Turing’s proposed test for intelligence 
(a.k.a. the Turing test) [Turing 1950]. The early years of NLP research (i.e., 1960-1985) centered on what is 
known as the rationalist approach. Statistical NLP, which takes an empiricist’s approach, did not become the 
dominant school of thought until the 1990s [Manning 1999]. Statistical NLP assumes that a large degree of 
latent semantic knowledge resides in text corpora, and, in order to encode this knowledge, numerical 
representations of language are necessary [Smith 2020]. Such numerical representations of words are called 
word representations (a.k.a. word vectors or word embeddings), and they are a fundamental building block of 
statistical NLP. 
Originally, words were encoded simply by assigning an integer to each unique token. However, integers 
are poor word representations because they do not allow semantic information to be shared across words with 
similar properties [Smith 2020]. Multidimensional vectors, on the other hand, can contain continuous values for 
each dimension, and these dimensions can be thought of as semantic features of the word being represented. 
For example, if we assign a dimension of a word vector to be associated with weight (in grams), feather might 
have a value of 0.001, penny might have the value of 2.5 and car might have a value of 1,250,000.0, but 
adjectives like green and chilly would have values of zero. Creating representations of words in this way is 
known as feature engineering, but it is not practical for most corpora, and surely not for an entire language. In 
most cases, learning word representations is far more useful. Early semantic representations utilized frequency-
based methods like singular value decomposition of the co-occurrence matrix. Such approaches power many 
widely used text mining techniques like latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) [Blei 2003]. These techniques comprise 
one family of word representations called global matrix factorization models [Pennington 2014]. 
Using word representations to encode the semantics of words in a language, statistical language models 
(a.k.a. probabilistic language models or simply language models) can be created to model the probability of 
word occurrence in sentences. Specifically, language models are probability distributions of sequences of words 
that are useful for problems that require the prediction of the next word in a sequence given the previous words. 
n-gram models are a very simple form of language model that are commonly used in text mining, and such 
 
1 We do not go into technical details here as our purpose is to inform readers about the possible applications of these techniques, both now 
and in the future, relative to existing text mining techniques.  

4 
simple models have long been used for a variety of other tasks including spell check, machine translation and 
speech and handwriting recognition [Manning 1999].  
2.1 Neural Word Representations 
Neural language models comprised of distributed word representations were first proposed as a solution for the 
curse of dimensionality [Bengio 2003]. Collobert and Weston [2008] then demonstrated the value of using deep 
learning for learning distributed representations of words from large unlabeled corpora, then transferred the 
learnt knowledge to multiple tasks learned simultaneously through further training (i.e., fine-tuning) on labeled 
datasets (i.e., deep transfer learning). Early last decade, Collobert et al. [2011] described the first pretrained 
neural word representations that were able to achieve strong performance on major NLP tasks. 
In the time since these early studies, distributed word representations have become widely preferred over 
alternate representations. One reason feature engineering is not practical for NLP is due to the challenge of 
identifying all of the relevant features of words that would need to be represented in order to capture the entire 
semantics of a corpus or language. However, representation learning generates a latent feature space where 
features are not constrained by the need to map directly to human concepts in natural language, which makes 
it much easier to capture the rich semantics of a language with a limited number of features (e.g., 100 to 300).  
The first strong neural language model to learn practically useful word representations in this manner was 
word2vec [Mikolov 2013b]. For training, Mikolov et al. proposed two different architectures: one for predicting 
the current word based on context (i.e., continuous bag-of-words or CBOW) and another for predicting the 
surrounding words given the current word (i.e., continuous skip-gram). The former was better suited for small 
corpora while the latter was better suited for scaling to large corpora. The new techniques proposed by Mikolov 
et al. were able to generate rich word representations that captured fine-grained semantic and syntactic 
regularities better than previous models. This led to the widespread use of word representations in NLP. 
The ability of these neural word representations to explicitly encode numerous linguistic regularities and 
patterns exhibited some very interesting characteristics: the relationships between two words could be 
represented as linear translations and that simple vector operations could be used to evaluate the concepts of 
semantic and syntactic similarity between words [Mikolov 2013a]. For example, the vector operation 𝑀𝑎𝑑𝑟𝑖𝑑
⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗ −
𝑆𝑝𝑎𝑖𝑛
⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗ + 𝐹𝑟𝑎𝑛𝑐𝑒
⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗  was closer to 𝑃𝑎𝑟𝑖𝑠
⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗  than any other word. Even vector addition alone had valuable results: in 
the latent feature space 𝐺𝑒𝑟𝑚𝑎𝑛𝑦
⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗ + 𝑐𝑎𝑝𝑡𝑖𝑎𝑙
⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗  was close to 𝐵𝑒𝑟𝑙𝑖𝑛
⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗  and 𝑅𝑢𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑎
⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗ + 𝑟𝑖𝑣𝑒𝑟
⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗  was close to 𝑉𝑜𝑙𝑔𝑎 𝑅𝑖𝑣𝑒𝑟
⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗⃗ .  
word2vec [Mikolov 2013b] was the first in a new family of word representation models that are very useful 
for analytics because it enabled building custom models from rich, learnt semantic features. However, it was 
not without limitations. For example, it did not leverage document level information during training. Alternately, 
global matrix factorization models were able to leverage document level statistical information but were unable 
to perform well on the analogical evaluation in which word2vec excelled (i.e., vectors’ semantic and syntactic 
similarity). Pennington et al. [2014] attempted to these issues with the GloVe (global vectors for word 
representation), which was able to make efficient use of document level statistics like global matrix factorization 
methods while also generating representations with a meaningful vector space substructure like that of 
word2vec. GloVe outperforms word2vec on some benchmarks, but both techniques are still widely used. 
We often refer to word representations like word2vec and GloVe [Mikolov 2013b; Pennington 2014] as 
pretrained word representations because these word representations are openly available for public download 
having already been pretrained on large text corpora. When used in this fashion they can be very powerful 

5 
because the Web-based corpora that they have been trained on are often too large for training by independent 
researchers with limited computational resources. Even for those with the requisite computing power, these 
pretrained representations save time from tuning hyperparameters and cleaning corpora. However, it is also 
common practice to train representations on smaller, domain-specific corpora which require fewer 
computational resources. This can be worth the time spent tuning hyperparameters due to the improvements 
that can be obtained by using domain-specific word representations. 
2.2 Neural Language Models 
Traditional deep neural networks2 are not well suited for language processing because NLP tasks often require 
mapping from vectors of different lengths. For example, a language model designed to predict the next word in 
a sentence must operate on an input of one word as well as an input of 20 words in order to predict the next 
word. Recurrent neural networks (RNNs) are neural networks with feedback connections that are suitable for 
machine learning tasks requiring such sequence-to-sequence mapping [Murphy 2012]. Their suitability for these 
tasks is due to the fact that, unlike normal neural networks, they are able to map from vectors of varying lengths 
to other vectors of varying lengths. One of the challenges that RNNs face in NLP is known as the vanishing 
gradient, which can cause training to fail, but there are techniques that can be used to mitigate this problem. 
Long short-term memory (LSTM) [Hochreiter 1997] models are a form of RNN that use a gating mechanism to 
address this problem, and they have long been used for a large number of NLP applications. An LSTM gating 
mechanism controls the flow of information to hidden neurons, which, for sequence-dependent data (e.g., 
sentences), can encode the meaning of a sequence while remembering (or forgetting) the most (or least) salient 
elements. Other approaches can also be applied to RNNs to counteract the vanishing gradient problem [Mikolov 
2014], such as the gated recurrent unit [Chung 2014], but none have been as effective as the LSTM. LSTMs 
work very well for a variety of challenging tasks; however, LSTMs typically rely on supervised learning and 
require a unique labeled training dataset for each task. They are well-suited for a variety of NLP tasks ranging 
from classification to translation to text generation and were the dominant NLP technique prior to the 
development of attention and the transformer architecture3.  
All of the word representations described thus far are static word representations, and they all have one 
major limitation: they attempt to represent words in all possible contexts with a single vector. However, words 
have different meanings in different contexts and thus are not always best represented in a static manner. 
Contextual word representations (CWRs) offer a solution for this based on the premise that if each word is 
going to have a unique representation then each vector should be dependent on a separate context vector 
representing the sequence of nearby words. CWRs were popularized by Peters et al. [2018] with the ELMo 
language model. ELMo was significant in that it demonstrated state-of-the-art (SOTA) performance on not just 
one NLP task but six, suggesting that performance gains from this approach were likely for a wide variety of 
NLP tasks. It also ushered in a class of pretrained language models with rich word representations embedded 
in the weights. Because these new language models are both language models and (able to generate) rich 
word representations, we refer to them simply as language models.  
 
2 Deep learning is a form of representation learning: a type of machine learning involving learning of representations or features in data. 
Mathematically, it can be thought of as a technique for learning a function to map from the input data to the output data. 
3 While LSTMs are thought to have been the dominant technique prior to the transformer, convolutional neural networks were (and are) 
still very capable and even preferable for many applications (e.g., classification). Recent work [Tay 2021] suggests that convolutional 
neural networks may still have significant capabilities despite the recent prevalence of transformer-based language models. 

6 
2.3 Deep Transfer Learning 
Transfer learning has long been a topic of interest for machine learning researchers. In fact, it predates deep 
learning and is a machine learning problem unto itself. However, deep transfer learning is very powerful and 
has become a topic of interest, being used for tasks from image processing to NLP.  
Generally speaking, transfer learning involves the transfer of knowledge learned from one learning task to 
improve results or speed up training for another task. It effectively removes the need to train a model from 
scratch by enabling specialized training for a new task via the fine-tuning of an existing, pretrained model. Deep 
transfer learning (DTL) refers to this use of deep learning for pretraining models on large amounts of data, 
either from labeled data for supervised pretraining or from unlabeled data for unsupervised pretraining. These 
pretrained models can then be fine-tuned on task-specific datasets to transfer the knowledge learnt from the 
more general, original training datasets to the domain-specific applications and use cases. 
Pretraining, as it is most commonly used for learning word representations, is a specific form of 
unsupervised learning known as self-supervised learning. Self-supervised learning does not require explicit 
labels for data as supervised learning techniques do, rather, implicit supervisory signals from the data are 
autonomously extracted and used during pretraining. In the case of NLP, these signals come from the sequence 
of the words, e.g., a model can be trained by masking a single word and training the model to predict that word 
given the surrounding words. Pretraining is critical to DTL model performance, and there are several key 
aspects that are important to understand. Typically, pretraining is performed using very large corpora, and 
corpora selection or curation can have a significant impact on model performance and end tasks. Also, the 
selection of a pretraining objective and the approach for self-supervision can have significant impacts on model 
performance and end tasks. The relevance of these elements will be explained further in the following sections.   
Fine-tuning is a critical component of DTL, too. It refers specifically to the further training of a pretrained 
model on a smaller, labeled dataset. For NLP it refers specifically to the process of leveraging the vast semantic 
knowledge contained in large, pretrained models for application to domain-specific tasks involving small 
domain-specific datasets. It is valuable because it enables the simple development of custom, SOTA NLP 
systems for a great variety of tasks with relatively small, labeled datasets and with significantly less effort than 
previous techniques (e.g., LSTMs). Oftentimes with the latest language models SOTA performance for a task 
can be attained by simply fine-tuning on task-specific datasets [Howard 2018].  
In the context of language models, transfer learning is considered to have four steps: pretraining, further 
pretraining, pre-finetuning and fine-tuning. The first and last steps have been explained, but the steps in-
between can be useful for significantly improving performance when using DTL. Further pretraining involves 
pretraining an already pretrained model on an alternate dataset, commonly one which is smaller and either 
domain-specific or task-specific. While more computationally expensive than fine-tuning, further pretraining is 
still much less resource intensive as pretraining the model from scratch and can be worth the cost when end 
task performance is critical. Additionally, further pretraining differs from initial pretraining in that further 
pretraining does not involve self-supervised signals and is not full self-supervised learning like initial pretraining. 
Like further pretraining, pre-finetuning is performed on an already pretrained model in order to further refine 
representations prior to end-task fine-tuning. It involves the use of a broad supervised dataset for multitask 
training in order to encourage learning representations that will generalize better to a variety of downstream 
tasks [Aghajanyan 2021]. Less computationally expensive than further pretraining, pre-finetuning can be used 
to improve performance when end-task effectiveness is critical or to improve zero-shot performance [Wei 2021]. 

7 
2.4 Transformer Language Models 
Because the study focuses on transformers and transformer-based language models, we split this section into 
two subsections: a high-level overview of recent progress, consistent with the overall narrative, and a discussion 
of more technical details about the transformer and models based on it that are relevant to IS researchers. 
2.4.1 Overview 
In late 2017 the transformer architecture was first proposed by Vaswani et al. [2017]. At the time LSTMs were 
the prevailing paradigm in NLP, but they did not work terribly well or reliably for very long sequences or transfer 
learning. The transformer presented a novel way to incorporate an attention mechanism in deep feedforward 
networks that allowed it to capture long range sequence dependencies like the LSTM, but with a larger context 
window for longer sequences. The transformer was also easily parallelizable and highly scalable. Due to this, 
transformers have been trained using unprecedently large corpora [Raffel 2020; Brown 2020]. We distinguish 
language models using the transformer as transformer language models (TLMs) because they perform 
remarkably better than LSTM-based models and they scale very well [Kaplan 2020]. 
There are a large number of TLMs, but here we will initially focus on three of the most significant with 
respect to practicality, novelty and improvement upon previous models4. TLMs first emerged over summer of 
2018 [Radford 2018], but the most powerful early model was BERT (bidirectional encoder representations from 
transformers5) [Devlin 2018], which was demonstrated in late 2018. In the time since it has become the most 
widely used TLM6, and is able to achieve SOTA performance on a wide number of tasks due to its versatility.  
The next major model advance was the text-to-text transfer transformer (T5) [Raffel 2020], which was 
developed specifically for transfer learning and is designed to operate solely through text generation by framing 
all text-based language problems as text-to-text tasks7. We refer to language models like this that operate solely 
through text generation as generative language models. In contrast to models like BERT where fine-tuning 
involves adding a fully connected layer and output neurons, which means that separate models are necessary 
for multiple tasks, T5 is intended to be fine-tuned on multiple tasks by default. By design T5 can be trained on 
multiple tasks simultaneously, in the fashion proposed by Collobert and Weston [2008] over a decade earlier. 
The final language model we mention here is also a generative language model: the generative pretrained 
transformer 3 (GPT-3) [Brown 2020]. GPT-3 is an OpenAI TLM which uses the same architecture as its 
predecessor, GPT-2 [Radford 2019]. What makes GPT-3 unique is its scale: GPT-3 was scaled to a model size, 
measured by number of parameters, an order of magnitude larger than any previous model and was pretrained 
on the largest dataset to date. This required extreme investments in computational resources and distributed 
computing infrastructure, but led to surprising improvements on zero-, one- and few-shot learning tasks. 
 
4 TLMs are trained in a variety of model sizes (number of parameters). For this survey we only consider the largest of each TLM. 
5 BERT has two notable characteristics: it is trained bidirectionally and it is a masked language model. Instead of being trained for 
predicting the next word in a sentence it is trained to predict missing words in a sentence. It does so by masking (i.e., masked language 
model) 15% of the words and training bidirectionally to predict the missing words as well as the next sentence. 
6 There are now a large number of variants of BERT, either architectural variations or models that were pretrained on a domain-specific 
dataset. BERT is so popular that a survey [Xia 2020] on the different variants and how to pick the best one for different types of problems 
was published recently at one of the premier NLP conferences. (This survey is a valuable resource). 
7 T5 was the result of a large-scale study by Google on the limits of transfer learning from transformer language models and it is not like 
previous models because it operates as a text-to-text language model, meaning that it both receives text as an input and produces text as 
an output. Most NLP tasks can be formulated in this manner, and this enables T5 to train a single model to perform multiple tasks during 
inference by appending a label associated with each unique task to the beginning of the input text. 

8 
Few-shot learning refers to the ability of a system to be able to learn without the need for even modestly 
sized datasets typically used for fine-tuning.  For example, being a generative language model, the model could 
be trained by providing (k) questions as input and the (k) correct answers as the training targets (e.g., for one-
shot learning k is one). For two-digit addition problems GPT-3 achieves 99.6% accuracy with only one example, 
and with no examples – i.e., zero-shot learning – GPT-3 still achieves 76.9% accuracy. Few-shot learning would 
involve k training prompts and targets, with a limit set by the fixed context window of 2048 tokens. Thus, if the 
model does not perform well on tasks with zero- or one-shot learning, more examples can be used to improve 
performance. Further work from OpenAI suggests language model performance will continue to scale with 
computational resources and dataset size, with no plateau in sight [Kaplan 2020]. 
2.4.2 Under the Hood 
The original transformer proposed by Vaswani et al. [2017] includes both encoder and decoder components. 
The encoder encodes the input sequence into a high dimensional feature space, and the decoder converts high 
dimensional representations back into words. This is known as a sequence-to-sequence (seq-to-seq) model, 
and, as such, it is naturally well suited for tasks like machine translation. However, the key contribution of the 
paper was not the encoder-decoder element, but rather that, unlike the LSTM, transformers do not use 
recurrence or require any sequential computation. Thus, transformers are not subject to the vanishing gradient 
problem8. Attention mechanisms predate the transformer [Xu 2016], but the transformer made practical use of 
attention in a novel and powerful way that enabled SOTA results on a major machine translation benchmark. 
Pretraining is the most critical element of a TLM as this is what distinguishes different TLMs. However, TLMs 
typically fall into one of three categories with respect to their pretraining: autoencoding, autoregressive or seq-
to-seq [Wolf 2019]. BERT is an example of an autoencoding TLM whereas GPT-3 is an example of an 
autoregressive TLM, and the original transformer is an example of a seq-to-seq TLM. The distinction between 
models is determined by the pretraining scheme. For example, BERT encodes documents bidirectionally and 
replaces random tokens with masks, then is trained to predict masked tokens as well as the next sentence. This 
contrasts with GPT-3, where tokens are predicted autoregressively with a left-to-right decoder. Autoencoding 
models perform best at discriminative tasks (e.g., classification, regression; tasks where BERT excels) while 
autoregressive models perform best at generative tasks (e.g., summarization, dialogue; where GPT-3 excels). 
BART is an example of a seq-to-seq model that attempts to bridge the divide between autoencoding and 
autoregressive models [Lewis 2020a]. It used a variety of denoising schemes for pretraining its denoising 
autoencoder. The results suggested that new pretraining schemes could lead to strong performance on 
generative tasks without sacrificing performance on discriminative tasks, and that different approaches to 
corrupting documents9 during pretraining may be better suited for specific downstream tasks. Another seq-to-
seq TLM based on a new type of denoising autoencoder, MARGE [Lewis 2020b], utilizes an alternative self-
supervision technique to the dominant token masking paradigm; similar documents from other langauges are 
used to assist in reconstruction of the input document. MARGE performs strongly on a wider range of tasks in 
many languages – both discriminative and generative – than previous models. 
 
8 While the LSTM uses a gating mechanism to mitigate the problem of the vanishing gradient, this does not overcome it completely, and 
the vanishing gradient still limits the context window of the LSTM. By not using recurrence at all, the transformer avoids this problem 
which results in a larger context window and the transformer’s most significant improvement over the LSTM. 
9 By corrupting we are referring to pretraining approaches such as masking 15% of input tokens during training, as with BERT. A variety 
of corruption approaches are explored with BART, and different approaches could have impacts on downstream tasks with fine-tuning. 

9 
2.5 Natural Language Understanding 
Natural language understanding (NLU) is typically thought to be a more general, longer-term goal for NLP 
researchers. We mention it here because significant effort has been made to develop measures to quantify 
progress in this domain, and these measures demonstrate the recent progress of TLMs. In April of 2018, 
researchers from leading institutions in business and academia realized the need for a new means of assessing 
progress and developed the General Language Understanding Evaluation (GLUE) benchmark [Wang 2018], 
which was intended to be a benchmark for measuring progress toward NLU. Just over a year later, in June of 
2018, Microsoft had surpassed the human baseline for GLUE [Liu 2019a]. However, this was anticipated, and 
a more difficult SuperGLUE benchmark was released [Wang 2019a]. 
BERT was used as the initial baseline for the SuperGLUE benchmark achieving a score of 69.0, well below 
the human baseline of 89.8, but less than three months later a team from Facebook AI Research had 
demonstrated a robustly optimized version of BERT (RoBERTa10) that was able to achieve a SuperGLUE score 
of 84.611 [Liu 2019c]. This striking progress led to speculation that, like progress in other domains such as self-
driving vehicles, the first 95% of the task was less difficult than previously perceived, but that the last 5% would 
become exponentially more challenging. However, less than three months later, and to the dismay in the natural 
language generation community [Belz 2019], T5 was released demonstrating a score of 88.912 on SuperGLUE 
– within a point of the human performance baseline [Raffel 2020].  
Following the release of T5 [Raffel 2020], progress appeared to slow for six months, which seemed to 
suggest that early intuition about the last 5% becoming more difficult may be valid. However, this lag was again 
shown to be unfounded by GPT-3 [Brown 2020]. GPT-3 impressed for many reasons, but its performance might 
be best summarized by considering that it achieved a SuperGLUE score of 71.8, over 4% higher than BERT, 
simply by using few-shot learning (k = 32). As impressive as this is, it is also important to consider that the 
variance among scores for the different tasks comprising the aggregate measure was dramatically higher for 
GPT-3. For example, BERT outperformed GPT-3 by over 45% on one complex linguistic task but GPT-3 
outperformed BERT by over 30% on a widely used causal reasoning benchmark. 
T5, with the use of an Unsupervised Data Generation (UDG) procedure [Wang 2021b], has since surpassed 
human-level performance on SuperGLUE. Other models have also exceeded human-level performance on 
SuperGLUE, including a decoding-enhanced BERT with disentangled attention (DeBERTa) from Microsoft [He 
2021], which builds on RoBERTa with disentangled attention and enhanced mask decoder training. Another 
multilingual model, ERNIE 3.0 [Sun 2021], from Baidu, has even surpassed the SuperGLUE performance of 
T5. To achieve this feat, ERNIE 3.0 fuses an auto-regressive network and an auto-encoding network for training 
on both text data and a large-scale knowledge graph.  
One research topic that clearly falls under the purview of NLU is chatbots. Progress in this area has also 
seen great improvements since 2018, with the most significant progress occurring recently. At the beginning of 
2020 Adiwardana et al. [2020] demonstrated Meena, an open domain chatbot that was thought to have more 
“human-like” conversation as measured by a novel metric that required evaluation of responses through 
crowdsourcing. Only a few months later, Facebook AI released Blender Bot open source [Roller 2020a], which 
 
10 RoBERTa was simply a replication study of BERT that explored the significance of different hyperparameter choices and training 
dataset size. They found that doing away with the next sentence prediction in pretraining, and some other training modifications, greatly 
improved the performance of BERT. 
11 RoBERTa should be used instead of BERT when possible due to the easy performance gains from pretraining. 
12 In the time since, T5 has been retrained to score even higher on SuperGLUE with an 89.4. 

10 
was significant as Blender Bot outperformed Meena on human judged evaluations. Because Blender Bot is a 
TLM-based chatbot, it can be fine-tuned for domain-specific tasks, offering new opportunities for IS researchers. 
2.6 Ongoing Research and Future Directions 
The review thus far brings readers up-to-speed with respect to where the SOTA is for TLMs and NLP. This 
section discusses some focal areas of current research where substantial progress is being made that stands 
to dramatically improve future capabilities beyond what might be anticipated from the research discussed prior.  
One of the most pressing limitations of TLMs is that they are terribly inefficient; the largest models can only 
be fine-tuned on the cloud, which can be costly for researchers, and such models are not possible to use on 
edge or mobile devices. However, important work has been conducted to address this. For example, DistilBERT 
[Sanh 2019] is 60% faster and 40% smaller than BERT but still retains 74% of BERT’s performance above the 
GLUE baseline. Other models focus on efficiency for specific tasks, such as TopicBERT, which is intended for 
document classification and achieves a 40% speedup while retaining 99.9% of BERT’s performance on five 
tasks [Chaudhary 2020]. Further, new work from Schick and Schütze [2020] demonstrates strong few-shot 
learning performance on SuperGLUE using ALBERT (a lite BERT) [Lan 2019], one of the most efficient TLMs. 
When Vaswani et al. [2017] first demonstrated the transformer it SOTA results on a major machine 
translation benchmark. TLMs work well for translation because they can represent the semantics of multiple 
languages in a shared, high-dimensional latent space. However, there are other applications of multilingual 
TLMs, and recent work has begun focusing on massively multilingual TLMs trained on 8 languages or more, for 
which new multi-domain and multi-task benchmarks have been developed [Hu 2020; Liang 2020]. The most 
widely used multilingual TLM is XLM-R, which is pretrained using text from 100 languages [Conneau 2020]. 
Optimizing these models for multiple tasks across multiple languages is one of the biggest challenges for 
multilingual TLMs, but the latest work has demonstrated substantial progress in this direction [Wang 2021a]. 
While revolutionary, the transformer is far from perfect. One significant limitation is the fixed length context 
window, which, while far greater than the LSTM, could be even more useful if extended. Early work addressing 
this, the Transformer-XL [Dai 2019], is used in XLNet [Yang 2019b], which demonstrates superior performance 
on general sentiment analysis. Other recent work has demonstrated a TLM with a context window of up to one 
million words [Kitaev 2020]. Another major limitation of transformers is the poor scalability of the self-attention 
mechanism. To address this, Zaheer et al. [2020] have proposed BigBird, a sparse attention mechanism that 
drastically improves upon the original transformer’s attention mechanism, which could have practical 
implications for tasks such as longer document summarization and question answering. Choromanski et al. 
[2021] have gone further proposing another sparse attention mechanism that demonstrates generalized 
attention which may lead to even greater improvements once used for training large TLMs. 
While the transformer has been exploited extensively as the current architecture of choice for the 
pretrain/fine-tune paradigm, recent work has shown that convolutional neural networks show promise in this 
area as well [Tay 2021]. This work suggests that architectural progress should be differentiated from progress 
in pretraining, and that convolutional neural networks outperform TLMs in some cases. Thus, further work is 
merited to explore alternative architectures to the transformer13 within the pretrain/fine-tune paradigm.  
 
13 This survey focuses on TLMs because only TLMs alone have demonstrated tremendous progress in NLP – at an equivalent level to 
AlexNet [Krizhevsky 2012] in computer vision last decade – however, if alternative architectures are as successful, the directions for 
future IS research suggested in later sections would still apply. 

11 
Finally, while much progress has been made in the domain of NLU, it is clear that there are limitations to 
distributional semantics (i.e., purely probabilistic models of semantic similarity). Grounded semantics refers to 
the grounding of semantic concepts to knowledge learnt from other forms of data (e.g., images, video, 
simulation), and is thought to be the next step toward NLU. Early work in this direction has focused on improving 
“commonsense reasoning” through grounding CWRs via training a multimodal model on a question answering 
dataset about images from movie scenes [Zellers 2019]. Recent work from Tan and Bansal [2020] builds on 
their previous work on cross-modal TLMs (LXMERT) [Tan 2019] by exploring the possibility of a visually-
supervised TLM through a process they call “vokenization.”  
Visual grounding may produce impressive results at present, but effective communication relies on a 
shared understanding of the world, one which is learnt from experience. Drawing from this notion, Bisk et al. 
[2020] have proposed five levels of World Scope: 1) corpus (the past), 2) the Web (most of current NLP), 3) 
perception (multimodal NLP), 4) embodiment (situated action taking), and 5) the social world. This new 
perspective is exciting because it situates existing work and identifies the next steps forward toward the shared 
understanding of the world necessary for truly successful linguistic communication through language grounding. 
2.7 Summary 
After the preceding overview of statistical NLP up to the current state of the field, we want to highlight three 
distinct periods through which recent progress can be better understood. The first period began with the 
inception of the field and lasted until 2013. This period was characterized in large part by hand crafted features 
and to some degree the emergence of statistical NLP. The bulk of text mining techniques used in practice today 
originated in this period. The second period began in 2013 with the word2vec model [Mikolov 2013b]. This 
ushered in a new, data-driven period characterized by neural word representations and neural language 
models. The most recent period began in 2018 and involves the topics which are the focus of this study. 
This current era of NLP is defined by three significant components: 1) CWRs, 2) DTL/fine-tuning and 3) 
TLMs. Combined, these elements are transforming the study of NLP because they enable leveraging 
unsupervised learning for a large number of tasks and applications. Fundamentally, this means that there is no 
limit to the amount of data that can be used for training, which brings new meaning to the phrase “big data”. 
Further, gains from continued scaling of language models are not expected to plateau anytime soon [Kaplan 
2020]. Such continued progress combined with grounded semantics advances may usher in truly transformative 
language processing, and it is essential for IS researchers to be familiar with progress in this domain. 
3 TEXT MINING IN INFORMATION SYSTEMS RESEARCH 
As this paper explores the future applications of TLMs in IS research, we felt it appropriate to conduct a thorough 
review of recent work in IS that used text mining or NLP. Due to the widespread application of these techniques, 
we limited our review to articles published (and preprints accepted for publication) from 2016 to 2020 in the 
three leading IS journals: Information Systems Research, the Journal of MIS and MIS Quarterly14. We chose to 
focus our review on three terms: “text mining,” “sentiment analysis” and “natural language processing.” We 
 
14 Even more articles using text mining appeared in other IS outlets such as Decision Support Systems and the International Conference 
on Information Systems proceedings. However, only articles from the top three IS journals were selected for inclusion in order to reduce 
noise because there were so many articles from these other outlets and the articles in the top three journals were deemed to be most 
representative of rigorous IS research. Moreover, very few articles using text mining appeared in the other basket of eight IS journals. 

12 
queried these terms using Google Scholar’s advanced search feature on September 10th, 2020. Only work that 
utilized these methods as part of a model were included in the results – studies that just mentioned the terms 
or only used them for robustness checks were discarded.  
This process resulted in 55 papers meeting our criteria. These papers are listed in Table I which depicts 
relevant features of each study. Each paper was carefully reviewed and coded with respect to these relevant 
features, seven of which characterized the techniques and seven more that characterized other relevant aspects 
of the studies. Each author independently coded each paper, and for disagreement, a discussion was conducted 
to arrive at a consensus. For coding we classified each feature with check marks of two shades to represent 
weak correspondence (grey) and strong correspondence (black). The four results that cited the two original 
neural word vector models [Mikolov 2013b; Pennington 2014] are shaded, and just one paper [Shin 2020] cited 
BERT [Devlin 2018], the most widely used TLM, but only as a suggestion for future work. No papers published 
or forthcoming in any of these journals at the time of this literature review had utilized CWRs, DTL or TLMs.  
For brevity, we do not discuss the details of the results of the IS literature review reported in Table I, but 
we will reference different elements of this table in the remainder of the document. In some cases, we reference 
specific studies from this section to demonstrate how TLMs can be used to improve on this work. However, our 
review of IS literature is not limited to just these studies, and in the next section we also identify more existing 
research, from IS and other domains, that did not utilize text mining, but which still stands to benefit from TLMs. 
The following section focuses on the most significant ways that TLMs and CWRs could impact IS research. 
While IS research examples are used in this, more detailed examples are described in Appendix A: Summaries 
& Recommendations. In this supplementary material, we include a summary of each paper from the IS literature 
review along with recommendations for how, or how not, the work might benefit from using TLMs or CWRs. We 
feel that this also can help readers to better understand how these new techniques are poised to impact IS 
research. This appendix was not included in the main text due to length, but we strongly feel that it is a major 
contribution of the paper; consequently, we recommend interested readers consider it to be primary content. 
While Table I reports the results of the literature review, and supports the content presented in the 
remainder of the paper, it alone does not provide a valuable synthesis for IS researchers applying text mining 
and NLP in their research. A critical element of research involving text data is identifying appropriate techniques 
for different types of data. Table II shows the methods from our literature review that are most used for various 
types of text analytics employed in IS research. It can be seen that all methods are used for social media data, 
and that nearly all techniques are also used for reviews. However, for other documents (e.g., government 
documents, financial documents) and for text data collected from apps, only techniques like topic modeling and 
feature extraction (or word representation models) have been utilized. However, for more generic internet data 
that does not involve reviews or social elements, all techniques have been used, except for sentiment analysis.  
In the following section we discuss how TLMs, CWRs and DTL can be used for each of the five classes of 
text mining techniques that we cover in Table II. While we also cover more speculative applications for IS 
researchers, we feel that simply applying these new techniques in manners consistent with the most common 
applications from the existing literature offer the most promising opportunities for IS researchers. 
 

13 
 

14 
 
4 IMPLICATIONS FOR RESEARCH AND PRACTICE 
TLMs will enable researchers and practitioners to leverage the broad NLP power of transformers for task-
specific applications through DTL via fine-tuning and through the development of custom models with rich 
CWRs. In doing so, they offer opportunities to improve insights from existing research and they will open the 
door to powerful NLP-driven analyses across a wide variety of new domains and applications. Furthermore, 
they will enable fundamental changes in the nature of human-computer interaction by enabling the widespread 
use of LUIs. While it is not possible to anticipate the upper bound of the technical capabilities that TLMs will 
unlock, much less the ways in which TLMs will impact organizations and society, we still attempt to outline those 
ways that seem plausible based on the bodies of literature we have reviewed in this survey. 
In the previous sections we have only considered the technical elements of TLMs and the existing body of 
IS literature that utilized text mining. In this section we further explore recent literature regarding TLMs, but with 
a focus on their applications in both research and practice. We do this in two phases: 1) by examining their 
potential for use in traditional text mining/NLP tasks and applications, and 2) by examining their potential for 
use on NLP tasks for that have not previously been practically useful due to insufficient performance. Through 
each of these phases we consider tasks and applications through their standard typification in the text mining 
and NLP literature. Throughout this process we consider implications of our discussion on both research and 
practice, especially in areas where they can be used to enhance or broaden the body of existing IS research15.  
4.1 Enhancing Existing Text Mining and NLP Applications 
4.1.1 Sentiment Analysis 
Sentiment analysis is the most widely used text analytics technique in recent IS literature (see Table I) with a 
broad range of applications including ecommerce, market intelligence, social media analytics, government, 
politics, security and public safety [Chen 2012]. TLMs have already been used to improve upon the state-of-
the-art (SOTA) performance on benchmarks for the major classes of sentiment analysis: aspect-based 
sentiment analysis, fine-grained sentiment analysis, targeted sentiment analysis and emotion detection [Phan 
 
15 We note the caveat that, while many of the studies cited here produce state-of-the-art results, their results may not yet enable new forms 
of research as we suggest. However, we feel our suggestions are prescient and justified due to the rapid pace of progress, and due to the 
fact that most of the studies cited utilize BERT [Devlin 2019], which only represents the baseline in the SuperGLUE [Wang 2019a] 
benchmark.  
 

15 
2020; Cheang 2020; Naseem 2020; Zhong 2019]. However, while we do feel strongly about the potential for 
TLMs, we also recognize sentiment analysis is a complex and well-established field and we do not intend to 
suggest that TLMs can nontrivially be used to improve on all existing applications. A comprehensive discussion 
of the implications of TLMs on sentiment analysis in IS research is beyond the scope of our study, but in this 
subsection we highlight the ways in which we feel that these techniques can be applied to benefit researchers 
and practitioners. Due to the prevalence of sentiment analysis in IS research, we do not provide many explicit 
examples but rather focus on the potential of the latest developments. 
For general applications, XLNet [Yang 2019] has demonstrated SOTA performance for the largest variety 
of benchmarks and is the best suited TLM for fine-tuning tasks involving task-specific sentiment analysis. More 
recently, the TLM SentiLARE has demonstrated strong all-around performance in sentiment analysis tasks by 
incorporating linguistic knowledge from SentiWordNet (Ke 2020). TLMs and CWRs have also been used to 
outperform LSTM and SVM-based methods on investor sentiment analysis [Li 2020] and to achieve SOTA 
results on targeted, domain-specific datasets such as airline industry Twitter data [Naseem 2020]. 
Implementations of TLMs such as these have strong implications for IS researchers utilizing sentiment analysis 
on domain-specific, targeted topics. 
Some have gone as far as to suggest that BERT [Devlin 2019] be used as the standard baseline for 
comparing future progress [Li 2019]. We believe that this is reasonable, and suggest that widely used TLMs 
(e.g., BERT) should be used as baselines for comparing all relevant novel text mining or NLP methods moving 
forward. We further suggest that due to concerns about the impact of mismeasurement and misclassification 
error from extracted data mining features on the validity of IS research [Yang 2018] those who choose to use 
alternative sentiment analysis techniques as input features for statistical models offer better justifications for 
their selected methods, including explanations for why fine-tuned TLM models were not used or including 
comparisons to more advanced TLM-based models16.  
Aspect-based sentiment analysis (ABSA) has great potential for business applications, such as for 
understanding online reviews in a finer-grained manner [Huang 2020], but our literature review indicates that it 
has not been applied in research published in premier IS journals yet. However, TLMs may make this easier in 
future work. DomBERT has been proposed to do just this (and more) by helping to train domain-specific TLMs 
with minimal resources, and it has shown promising results on ABSA tasks [Xu 2020]. Other recent work on 
improving analysis of online reviews has advanced the SOTA on widely used ABSA benchmarks of online 
reviews [Phan 2020], and we feel that using TLMs for ABSA is an excellent avenue for future IS research.  
Due to the value of DTL, TLMs make targeted sentiment analysis a particularly easy area for improving 
upon the analyses of existing IS research when large amounts of data are available. Even in cases where 
labeled training datasets are not available, crowd sourcing options such as the Amazon Mechanical Turk make 
the labeling of a modest number of documents17 reasonable. This is particularly useful for cases involving text 
data, like Tweets, that does not conform to standard syntactic rules, or cases when specific topics are of interest. 
For an IS example, Ghiassi et al. [2017] developed a custom sentiment model using feature engineering, 
vectorization and a trained classifier. However, TLMs remove the text mining knowledge necessary for 
developing an advanced model like this and make it more straightforward to achieve optimal performance on 
business related datasets, such as that used by Ghiassi et al., with only data collection, cleansing and sentiment 
 
16 Such as fine-tuned XLNet [Yang 2019] or SentiLARE [Ke 2020]. See Phan and Ogunbona [2020] for an example. 
17 A number of documents on the order of magnitude from 1,000 to 10,000 is often sufficient for fine-tuning pretrained TLMs. 

16 
scoring. For the same reasons, TLMs offer benefits to practitioners, where marginal improvements in the quality 
of input features and the quality of results can have a more tangible and valuable effect than in research by 
increasing revenue, sales or profits.  
4.1.2 Emotion Detection 
Emotion detection is a form of sentiment analysis that we feel is worth mentioning separately due to its relevance 
to IS research. From text alone, it can be particularly challenging due to the absence of knowledge about the 
target’s gestures or facial expressions [Chatterjee 2019a]. Progress on this task has proved to be more 
challenging than some of the other tasks discussed in this section where BERT-based models have easily 
improved upon SOTA results. However, progress has still been made, for example, by fine-tuning on evaluation 
datasets using TLMs that account for commonsense reasoning by incorporating a commonsense knowledge 
base and an emoticon lexicon during pretraining18 [Zhong 2019]. Commonsense knowledge has also been 
employed more recently by using pretrained CWRs to incorporate different commonsense elements such as 
mental states and causal relations to learn interactions between interlocutors in dialogue, achieving SOTA 
performance on four conversational emotion benchmarks [Ghosal 2020]. Emotion detection is more challenging 
than other tasks that we have focused on, but these early results offer strong evidence for the ability of 
combining CWRs and TLMs with other techniques (e.g., knowledge graphs) to outperform existing models on 
such challenging tasks. 
While more complex, these solutions make progress on a topic that is particularly valuable in IS research 
and business more broadly. A number of studies published in elite IS journals involve emotion, however, they 
often involve designed experiments [Liang 2019] or qualitative and mixed-methods approaches [Salo 2020]. 
Consequently, we feel that methodological research involving TLMs for emotion detection is a topic that is well-
suited for IS researchers and should be prioritized due to its potential impact in IS research and beyond. We 
further expect that emotion detection could have an impact on other areas of business research such as 
marketing19 and finance20.  
In our IS literature review, Chau et al. [2020] demonstrated a novel model utilizing a text mining driven 
classifier in tandem with a rule-based classifier to identify at-risk individuals exhibiting emotional distress. This 
is a novel and important application of text analytics in IS research, yet, in light of the literature reviewed here 
there is much room for improvement21, and it would be interesting to see the methods discussed in this section 
used for future work along these lines. The data used by Chau et al. was in Chinese, so some of the techniques 
suggested above may not have been viable alternatives, but multilingual TLMs, discussed later in this 
subsection, offer new solutions for this as well. 
 
18 This example differs from the majority in that it involved the specialized pretraining of a TLM as well as task-specific fine-tuning (as 
opposed to using an out-of-the-box TLM pretrained on a large, generic corpus). 
19 As an example, from marketing, Rockledge and Fazio [2020] examine the effects of emotion in online reviews using a lexicon-based 
emotion analysis technique. We feel that this could likely benefit from more fine-grained analysis using either ABSA-based methods or 
some of the more complex commonsense-based emotion detection techniques discussed above. 
20 In finance, studies focus on sentiment and emotion, but they do not use text mining techniques [Jiang 2019; Cortes 2016]. We feel that 
these new methods may be strong enough to lead to valuable insights which can aid in the development of new theoretical contributions, 
and we suggest that researchers and practitioners in these disciplines consider applying the methods discussed in this subsection for 
datasets available in their domain. 
21 For one, it uses a lexicon-based method for feature extraction, which is not relevant enough for comparison on emotion recognition 
benchmarks in our literature review or in the foremost computing psychology journal [Chatterjee 2019b]. We feel that it would have been 
useful for a study so recent to have included a comparison to the current methods discussed here. 

17 
4.1.3 Text Classification 
Text classification is an essential technique of text mining that has numerous applications in organizations. 
While it was not as widely used in our survey as sentiment analysis or feature extraction, it was commonly used 
in combination with other text mining techniques and is one of the techniques which stands to improve most 
dramatically from fine-tuning TLMs. This is underscored by the fact that, in their seminal paper on transfer 
learning for language models, Howard and Ruder [2018] focused on six text classification tasks for 
demonstrating the value of DTL in NLP. BERT [Devlin 2019], fine-tuned on domain-specific datasets, was 
quickly demonstrated to achieve SOTA performance for a variety of text and document classification tasks [Yao 
2019; Sun 2019b]. One example that could be particularly useful for IS research is BERTweet, which is a BERT-
based model pretrained on Twitter data that achieves SOTA performance on Twitter text classification as well 
as part-of-speech-tagging and named-entity recognition [Nguyen 2020]. Models like this, pretrained on domain-
specific data, are quite common: SciBERT [Beltagy 2019] and COVID-Twitter-BERT [Müller 2020]. Such models 
can then be fine-tuned on task-specific data for further performance gains. Due to the improved performance 
they bring, it is likely that similar models could be very useful for numerous applications in IS research, other 
business domains and the social sciences more broadly. For an IS example, one could extend the work of Mejia 
et al. [2019] on classifying restaurant hygiene by unsupervised pretraining of a BERT-based model on bulk 
restaurant reviews, then fine-tuning for classification of “instances of hygiene violations.”  
TLMs enable the creation of text classification models which previously required complex methods to be 
created with significantly less effort and expertise. Huang et al.’s [2020] study of support and companionship in 
virtual healthcare communities offers an excellent opportunity to use fine-tuning to improve model performance. 
BERT [Devlin 2019] could be fine-tuned via a Google Colab notebook22 (and a powerful coprocessor23) for 
free24, as could smaller T5 models [Raffel 2020]. However, Colab offers a good opportunity to debug T5, and 
Huang et al.’s study offers a good opportunity to use T5’s multitask capability. As another example, Kraus and 
Feuerriegel [2017] developed a Bi-LSTM model for predicting a firm’s market performance based on financial 
disclosures, but BERT could be fine-tuned on the same data using Colab and a few dozen lines of code to 
improve performance (see Wolf 2019).  
Training a TLM to classify the data from Kraus and Feuerriegel [2017] would work by simply inputting entire 
documents because the model would simply output a class, but not all documents are short enough to fit in the 
context window of TLMs25. Innovative models such as DocBERT [Adhikari 2019] and the Longformer [Beltagy 
2020] have achieved SOTA results on various document classification tasks, as well as other document related 
tasks, and could be useful for longer documents like internal reports, legal documents, newspaper and 
magazine articles or longer Wikipedia articles. Moreover, recent modifications to the original transformer 
architecture such as the reformer [Kitaev 2020] suggest that larger context windows will be a feature of TLMs 
in the near future.  
 
22 Google Colab notebooks (virtual Jupyter notebooks) can be used to run simple deep learning models directly through the browser, and 
we feel that these are well suited for most applications of TLMs and CWRs suggested in this study. Official instructional notebooks exist 
for all of the most widely used models, and 3rd party notebooks exist for many other models. 
23 This will either be a SOTA graphics processing unit (GPU) or one of Google’s proprietary tensor processing units (TPUs). 
24 Colab is free but has usage limits. However, Colab Pro, for $10 per month has no limits and more generous TPU allocation. 
25 There is a limit to the number of tokens that can be input (e.g., 512 for BERT) [Devlin 2019], though this context window is larger for 
larger models such as T5 (e.g., up to 2,048) [Raffel 2020]. 

18 
4.1.4 Topic Modeling 
Topic modelling is widely used in IS research, as indicated by our survey, and the most widely used technique 
is latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) [Blei 2003]. However, TLMs have also performed well in these areas and 
BERT [Devlin 2019] has been shown to improve upon the SOTA when applied to specific use cases such as 
argument [Reimers 2019] and document clustering [Park 2019]. Moreover, contextual document embeddings 
from TLMs have been shown to improve topic coherence [Bianchi 2020]. However, overall it is unclear whether 
BERT-based CWR clustering improves on LDA enough to make a difference [Sia 2020], but the results from 
Sia et al. suggest that larger TLM CWRs such as those from RoBERTa [Liu 2019c], XLNet [Yang 2019] or T5 
[Raffel 2020] could be expected to outperform LDA. While there may be some uncertainty about using CWRs 
for clustering, Hoyle et al. [2020] have demonstrated that TLM-based techniques can be used to obtain SOTA 
topic coherence. They do this not by using CWRs or TLMs directly for topic modeling, but by using their BERT-
based Autoencoder Teacher (BAT) approach in tandem with SOTA topic modeling methods. Thus, this is 
another case in which TLM-based methods should begin to be used as default methods. This can have 
important implications for IS research because improved input features can significantly impact the statistical 
validity of IS research results [Yang 2018].  
4.1.5 Word Representation Models 
Word representation models are commonly used in IS research, particularly when feature extraction is 
necessary. While such techniques do not outperform CWRs, they are still able to perform relatively well on 
tasks with plentiful data and simple language [Arora 2020], but our review has indicated that this is not always 
the case for IS. Thus, we see numerous studies as being able to benefit from the improvements offered by 
CWRs. For example, Arazy et al. [2020] focus on the evolution of digital artifacts (i.e., wiki articles) over time by 
tracking trajectories in a feature space, and, because the authors do not use text mining, they explicitly suggest 
the use of word representations would benefit future work26. As another example we consider Wang et al. [2020] 
who extract soft semantic factor characteristics from descriptive loan texts, but the semantic similarities between 
words and loan texts could be more easily and effectively captured in a latent feature space using CWRs. 
Numerous other studies utilize feature extraction, some even using neural word representations, and many 
stand to gain from using more advanced CWRs (see Appendix A for concrete suggestions on the papers from 
the IS literature review). 
Other models in the IS literature have used alternative techniques for feature extraction to develop novel 
distributional representations of text [Shi 2016], and we feel that some of these models offer good opportunities 
for using CWRs. For example, Shi et al. used LDA [Blei 2003] for feature extraction to represent aspects of 
firms’ business to evaluate firms’ relative “business proximity.” Lee et al. [2020] also use LDA to create a novel 
“app similarity measure.” Work such as this is well suited for CWRs which can be crafted in a custom fashion 
to create novel measures of documents’ semantic similarity [Gyawali 2020]. In general, LDA is widely used in 
the IS research literature for extracting features [Gong 2018; Shin 2019; Liu 2020b], but even if dimensionality 
reduction is necessary for using the features in statistical models, we agree with Shin et al. that CWRs can 
provide richer representations. 
 
26 Specifically, they suggest that “the feature space could be represented through more sophisticated text processing methods and more 
advanced knowledge representations … the patterns observed here serve as a lower bound” [Arazy 2020]. 

19 
4.2 Beyond Existing Applications 
While CWRs and TLMs have significant implications for improving and furthering existing IS research, we 
believe that their most interesting applications for IS research are in their advanced and novel applications. In 
this subsection we discuss these emerging topics. 
4.2.1 Regression 
Regression is one emerging application for which little previous work has been conducted in NLP. One good 
example of using NLP for regression was by Kraus and Feuerriegel [2017] who used financial disclosures to 
predict firms’ subsequent performance in financial markets, but their model required a very specialized LSTM 
model. However, it is possible to simply fine-tune language models for regression by posing regression 
problems as text-to-text tasks [Raffel 2020]. While, this is still an emerging research area, it has been 
demonstrated for applications such as table retrieval [Chen 2020] and to predict brain activity as measured by 
fMRI based on the text being read [Schwartz 2019]. One practical example of regression on text data is that of 
automated essay scoring such as for standardized tests. Yang et al. [2020] find that simply fine-tuning on BERT 
[Devlin 2019] is not enough, but that extracting CWRs from BERT and training a fully-connected neural network 
on multiple losses improves on the SOTA performance by almost 3%. We feel that this example offers promise 
for many practical business tasks, as well as for numerous uses in IS research. 
4.2.2 Multilingual Analytics 
Machine translation can be useful in business intelligence and business analytics applications when 
organizations need to analyze or monitor either static or streaming text data in multiple languages [Moreno 
2016]. While it is more commonly thought to be an independent research area within NLP, like speech 
recognition, progress on the related topic of multilingual language models does have significant implications for 
IS research. Machine translation has more applications in practice than research, and interested readers are 
encouraged to review recent high-level overviews [Hao 2019]. Here, our discussion focuses broadly on 
multilingual capabilities of TLMs and their applications in both research and practice. 
Multilingual TLMs were introduced in the previous section and models like XLM-R [Conneau 2020] result 
in significant improvements for a wide variety of cross-lingual transfer tasks. What is most interesting about the 
results from Conneau et al. is that they suggest these gains may be possible without sacrificing monolingual 
performance. It may not be obvious how this will impact IS research, but there is a digital language divide 
between dominant languages [Young 2015], and as information technology has proliferated over time this divide 
has had a significant impact on their adoption and applications across cultures. Consequently, multilingual TLMs 
enable a powerful tool to examine this using deep learning analytics. For an IS example, George et al. [2018] 
evaluated the effect of communication media and culture on deception detection by conducting an experiment 
which showed that different combinations of media and cultural effects affected deception detection accuracy. 
Multilingual language models offer the ability to conduct research in this vein without the burden of conducting 
an experiment with groups across three different languages, a burden that is likely prohibitive to most IS 
researchers. Our survey of IS literature found social media and online reviews to be the primary applications of 
text mining in IS research. Simply considering social media, and the ability to apply TLMs for analysis of behavior 
across cultures, one can look at recent work in leading human-computer interaction journals [Wang 2019b; Cho 

20 
2018] and foresee the strong research potential here. Thus, we anticipate that multilingual TLMs will open doors 
to numerous new research directions for IS researchers.  
Yet, these models’ value is not limited strictly to cultural comparisons and can be applied directly to improve 
insights from existing IS research. The work of Chau et al. [2020] mentioned earlier could benefit from using 
multilingual representations to replace older lexicon-based methods of feature extraction. This hints at the 
possibility of being able to conduct IS research on non-English datasets without the need for fluency in the 
language of focus. If possible, this would open up a wide variety of foreign language datasets to IS researchers.   
4.2.3 Language Generation 
Language generation has been a topic of interest in the NLP community for over a decade, and it is such a 
significant topic with respect to TLMs that we make a distinction between standard TLMs and generative 
language models. GPT-2 [Radford 2019] was the first generative language model to really demonstrate 
shockingly impressive language generation results. It was followed by T5 [Raffel 2020] and most recently by 
GPT-3 [Brown 2020], which each demonstrated shocking gains.  
Significant effort is going into improving reliability and ease of generating samples that are more human-
like [Keskar 2019] or less biased [Huang 2020; Ma 2020] while others are focusing on applying TLMs to more 
immediately practical applications, such as chatbots [Roller 2020b]. We previously mentioned chatbots that 
were closing in on human-level performance for open domain conversation [Adiwardana 2020; Roller 2020a]. 
We expect language generation to be inextricably related to the future of IS research in  a very significant way 
given its potential to fundamentally change human-computer interaction. The remainder of this section focuses 
on different applications of language generating systems with implications for future IS research such as for 
document summarization, question and answering, automated report generation and language user interfaces.  
4.2.4 Document Summarization 
Document summarization is a task that has the potential to be very valuable for business intelligence and 
business analytics applications. While document summarization is still a very challenging task [Kryściński 2019], 
TLMs are showing promise in this area, and have even successfully been able to use recursive summarization 
schemes for summarizing entire novels [Wu 2021]. Generally, document summarization is classified as being 
one of two types: extractive or abstractive. Extractive summarization involves identifying and concatenating 
extracts from the document into a summary. Improvements for this using TLMs are straightforward for 
specialized applications because existing pre-trained models can simply be fine-tuned on domain-specific 
datasets [Gu 2019]. However, abstractive summarization is more challenging, yet, despite this, more complex 
TLMs have been able to achieve SOTA performance when trained directly on task-specific datasets [Duan 
2019]. Researchers have begun using unified frameworks for multitask models capable of both abstractive and 
extractive summarization [Chen 2019], leading to SOTA on benchmarks for both extractive and abstractive 
summarizations [Liu 2019b] and multi-document summarization [Jin 2020]. Abstractive summarization is more 
valuable in the long run, and recent work on this task has concluded that TLMs and generative language models 
are able to generate more informative, coherent, faithful and factual summaries [Maynez 2020].   
The potential applications of summarization for business intelligence systems are wide-ranging. For one, if 
we extend summarization to full report generating systems, we can envision how such systems could leverage 
industry reports, news articles and social media to power business intelligence systems with real-time 

21 
understanding of complex market behavior in the form of an intelligent dashboard. Summarizations could also 
be used for reducing reading time on emails or other long documents or reports produced by employees at all 
levels of the organization. The ability to highlight the key points in a document may even be more beneficial in 
this aspect. Exciting new work from OpenAI has shown significant improvements in summary quality by using 
human feedback to train summarization models [Stiennon 2020] and these results suggest that practical use of 
summarization systems may not be far away. 
Multi-document summarization [Lu 2020] and extreme summarization [Narayan 2020] have become 
popular topics as well, and ones with significant implications for practical applications in highly specialized 
domains (e.g., science, finance, etc.). Extreme summarization refers to summarizing highly technical 
documents, such as scientific papers, with a single sentence. This could also be very useful for summarizing 
financial statements or legal documents. Documents of this sort are often large in number, and query focused 
multi-document summarization that is effective for a range from coarse-to-fine estimation [Xu 2020] could be 
extremely useful in future business intelligence systems for these domains.  
Another potentially very useful application of summarization would be practical cross-lingual 
summarization, which would use a multilingual TLM to generate a summary in one language from a text written 
in another language. TLMs have been used for this, but the relative performance was not possible to determine 
[Zhu 2019]. Exciting new work shows continued progress on this task [Cao 2020], and a new multilingual 
summary dataset [Scialom 2020] and benchmark [Ladhak 2020] suggest that we can expect more work on this 
topic in the future.  Similar to our discussion of multilingual TLMs earlier, the applications discussed in this 
subsection offer numerous opportunities for IS researchers and open the door to novel research questions.  
4.2.5 Question Answering 
Question answering (QA) systems that are effective for domain-specific applications have tremendous potential 
for business intelligence. Such systems could fundamentally change the nature of decision support for any 
application with enough data for fine-tuning. Impressively, systems have been able to score an A on a 
standardized New York 8th grade science exam and a B – an 83 – on the same 12th grade exam [Clark 2019]. 
While this sort of generality is not necessary for practical applications, it effectively demonstrates how powerful 
QA systems from TLMs can be. For many practical business applications, a high school graduate that can make 
an 83 on the most difficult standardized high school level science exam can likely read documents and be able 
to generate answers that suffice for a wide range of data and applications relevant to organizations. Many tasks 
that standard college graduates do in white collar jobs do not require the full use of their faculties and education.  
Such powerful QA systems, particularly when it is possible to fine-tune them for customized experiments, 
have the potential for valuable new directions in IS research. For example, we can consider QA systems that 
are easily fine-tuned on domain-specific datasets. This has been a desirable goal for many years, especially 
since IBM’s Watson, but it has not materialized as many had originally anticipated. Yet, given the rapid progress 
of TLMs, we can expect such systems to become practical in the near future. Xu and Lapata [2020] discuss 
adapting recent QA methods to improve query focused multi-document summarization, and such systems have 
the potential to transform strategic decision making in organizations and dramatically impact the nature of white-
collar labor. If we consider not just multi-document QA, or data warehouse QA, but QA based on an entire 
organization’s archived text data, we can begin to understand this potential. Yet, however transformative these 
technologies may be, it is likely that these advances will first lead to the augmentation of human jobs rather 

22 
than the replacement of them [Morgan 2019], and it falls on IS researchers to develop an understanding of how 
this augmentation of occupations will impact organizations and the future of white-collar work.  
Recent work on a knowledge-intensive generative language model from Facebook – retrieval-augmented 
generation (RAG) – demonstrated SOTA performance for three widely used, general QA tasks [Lewis 2020c]. 
In the same month, another QA oriented generative language model from the Allen Institute, called UnifiedQA, 
demonstrated strong performance without fine-tuning, and was able to achieve SOTA performance on 10 factoid 
and commonsense QA benchmarks [Khashabi 2020]. However, while all of this may seem impractical due to 
the lack of labeled datasets, there are strong, user-friendly extractive QA systems that can be fine-tuned on 
large, unlabeled domain-specific datasets [Dibia 2020] which could be used for IS research now and which 
could offer guidance for future research as business-related question answer datasets are created and as 
systems grow more capable27.  
Generally, work on reading comprehension is closely related to QA systems. Thus, it should come as no 
surprise that CWRs were already rivaling SOTA performance in related tasks in 2018 [Salant 2018]. After its 
release, BERT [Devlin 2019] soon achieved new SOTA performance on multiple benchmarks in multiple choice 
reading comprehension tasks [Zhang 2019]. Based on the prevalence of online reviews that our survey 
illuminated in existing IS research, the new idea of review reading comprehension proposed by Xu et al. [2019], 
for including a QA system on top of a large repository of ecommerce reviews, may offer some further insight 
into the potential for fine-tuning multitask models on domain-specific datasets. Their system targeted customers, 
but similar systems could be developed for other applications in organizations such as for analysts working to 
increase revenue or to improve customer satisfaction.  
4.2.6 Language User Interfaces 
Language user interfaces (LUIs) have long been anticipated to become a widely used modality of human-
computer interaction [Brennan 1991]. While LUIs still play only a limited role in our daily interactions with 
computers, recent progress in TLMs raises the possibility that LUIs will become practical and widespread in the 
near future. We envision practical LUIs to be powerful systems that are used to enhance human capabilities 
through human-computer interaction [de Vries 2020]. In the following paragraph we will briefly discuss some 
possibilities for practical applications of LUIs28.  
We define an LUI as an intelligent system that is goal oriented to substantially enhance economically valued 
human capabilities through an interface that is optimally controlled with natural language. We are particularly 
interested in LUIs that are practical in the sense that they can assist humans in tasks of nontrivial economic 
utility. Some obvious examples of LUIs are personal assistants, assistants for the impaired or customer support 
assistants. While many call centers already use automation and there are widely used personal assistants like 
Google Assistant and Siri, their economic utility is relatively limited. Perhaps this is truer for the personal 
assistants than for the call centers but call center automation has been gradually increasing for decades. Many 
tasks are repetitive, like navigating information systems, and they do not require strong language understanding 
or interaction. Thus, such systems do not meet the criteria of being optimally controlled through natural 
language. Furthermore, while we do not feel any of these existing example systems meet the criterion of 
 
27 All of these models are available open-source: RAG at https://huggingface.co/transformers/model_doc/rag.html;UnifiedQA at 
https://huggingface.co/allenai/unifiedqa-t5-large; NeuralQA at https://github.com/victordibia/neuralqa. 
28 A full discussion of LUIs is beyond the scope of this paper, but interested readers are referred to (authors’ working paper).  

23 
enhancing economically valued human capabilities, we feel that TLMs are currently poised to usher in dramatic 
progress on it. 
More powerful LUIs that we foresee include navigation agents for automobiles or flying vehicles, interactive 
domestic appliances and domestic robots. Furthermore, directly related to organizations’ productivity, we 
envision agentive business intelligence systems that are able to offer powerful capabilities such as those 
mentioned earlier in this subsection like summarization or QA capabilities, but which also leverage 
reinforcement learning to tailor their functionality to a specific user. Such systems would truly transform the 
nature of business intelligence and decision support systems, and it is critical for IS researchers to begin 
understanding how these systems will change organizations and society in the years to come because their 
rise may come quickly [Gruetzemacher 2020]. 
While this is primarily a topic for future research, it is possible for eager IS researchers to begin work on 
these problems at present. We have included links (in footnotes) in this subsection to open-source code that 
could be used to these ends. Further, Roller et al. [2020a] demonstrated the best performing chatbot29 to date 
in their Blender Bot while also releasing the code open-source as well as the 9.4 billion parameter pretrained 
model30. We believe that this alone unlocks a wide range of novel IS research directions, particularly if the 
model is fine-tuned for specific tasks and evaluated empirically. Other recent work on ToD-BERT [Wu 2020] for 
task-oriented dialogue offers another tool31 for conducting preparadigmatic research in this new domain. We 
feel that such research is important because children are already accustomed to LUIs like Alexa and Siri in their 
homes and phones and are beginning to expect devices to respond to verbal commands; we anticipate that in 
the coming decades, when entering the workforce they will expect language-enabled support in the workplace. 
4.2.7 Few-Shot Learning 
Few-shot learning is something that we feel will be closely related to LUIs, but its potential impact has strong 
enough potential to garner a brief but independent discussion. The strong performance of GPT-3 on certain 
tasks such as QA via zero- one- and few-shot learning suggests the possibility of novel LUIs, and we feel that 
this is a topic that also falls to IS researchers to explore. It is beyond the scope of this study to illuminate in 
detail the potential for few-shot learning in IS research, but we suggest considering the following. Generative 
language models like GPT-3 take a text prompt at the time of inference, and, in the case of GPT-3, this prompt 
can be long and involve sequential tasks such as questions followed by answers. Performance from GPT-3 on 
tasks demonstrated in this manner is particularly strong, as we discussed in an earlier section.  
GPT-3 also performs well on prompts that give a context and ask for the model to fill in the blank, to 
complete the sentence or even to generate an essay based on the prompt. Thus, it is easy to see how continued 
research and increasing the scale of powerful generative language models like GPT-3 can lead to very useful 
systems capable of report generation, summarization and other valuable tasks if trained with a larger context 
window (and at a higher computational cost). However, what is not as obvious is the value of direct user interface 
with a system capable of learning complex contexts such as QA or mathematical operations. It is likely that 
there are novel ways of interacting with such interfaces that can create value in ways that are difficult to imagine 
 
29 While there has been dramatic and practical progress on open domain chatbots recently, a full discussion of chatbots is beyond the scope 
of this study. (This topic will be covered in greater detail in forthcoming work from the authors on LUIs.) 
30 This can be found at: https://parl.ai/projects/recipes/. 
31 The code can be found at: https://github.com/jasonwu0731/ToD-BERT. 

24 
a priori. For example, one startup is using GPT-3 exclusively to improve inbox productivity by generating 
detailed emails from short prompts32. They do this through a novel notion of LUI wherein the user does not have 
to reply in complete sentences, they only provide the information necessary for the response and the model 
generates an email response in context33 with the correct information. We feel this is an appropriate and urgent 
topic for IS research34.  
5 SUMMARY OF IMPLICATIONS FOR IS RESEARCH 
We first surveyed the recent progress in NLP that has led to SOTA performance on a wide range of tasks using 
TLMs. Next, we discussed and reviewed IS research that has used existing text mining and NLP techniques, a 
substantial portion of which could be improved by using CWRs or TLMs. We then discussed some of these 
possible improvements in the next section35 as well as a number of possible avenues for new and novel IS 
research stemming from TLMs. In this section we summarize our findings and their implications for IS research. 
TLMs have a handful of distinct and noteworthy advantages over standard text mining techniques. 
Foremost, they are able to achieve SOTA results on a wide variety of text mining and NLP tasks as long as a 
modestly sized dataset is available for training. However, their value is not limited to labeled datasets and fine-
tuning; they can be used to generate rich CWRs which can be used to extract features for building custom 
models in combination with a variety of machine learning or statistical methods. Based on how often feature 
extraction has been used for text analytics in the recent IS literature, we feel that this alone can have a significant 
impact on future IS research. 
The remainder of this section focuses of four distinct topics. First, we review the implications of TLMs which 
is followed by a discussion of new opportunities and LUIs. We next offer some brief suggestions for reviewers 
and editors when considering submissions involving novel methodological contributions for text analytics and 
finally, we discuss some implications of further TLM scaling and continued progress in grounded semantics. 
5.1 Transformer Language Models (TLMs) 
From sentiment analysis to emotion detection to text classification to regression to cross-lingual analysis, TLMs 
promise to have a significant positive impact on future IS research, notwithstanding the more advanced novel 
applications, and they can do so in a number of different ways. For improving existing work, they can either 1) 
be used to generate rich CWRs or 2) be used directly, through pretraining, through fine-tuning and DTL, or both. 
More exciting, they can 3) be used to extend existing IS research by enabling easier cross-cultural analyses. 
We describe these themes in this subsection and discuss other issues that may impact the future use of TLMs. 
1. When a modestly sized dataset is available, simple DTL and fine-tuning will often outperform all methods 
other than specialized TLMs or advanced models using CWRs and possibly LSTMs. This is important 
because using DTL to obtain such strong performance is significantly easier than the development of a 
custom LSTM model or the development of a custom TLM model or one that has not been pretrained. This 
should enable the wider use of fine-tuned TLM models for tasks such as sentiment analysis or text 
classification, thereby improving performance, even if only as a component of a more complex analysis. 
 
32 Demonstrations can be seen at https://www.OthersideAI.com. 
33 We imagine this fails on emails over 2,000 words because the entire email must be given to GPT-3 as context. It is also likely that the 
firm has fine-tuned GPT-3 for this task, which is very costly but would quickly bring a novel product to market. 
34 OpenAI has recently begun licensing API access to GPT-3 through Microsoft. 
35 A discussion for each study in the IS portion of the survey is included tables A1-A3 in Appendix A.  

25 
Because Google offers free, powerful Colab notebooks that include tutorials for fine-tuning a standard 
BERT model36, we feel it is reasonable to expect IS researchers to be able to do this with minimal machine 
learning expertise37. 
2. CWRs generated from TLMs are superior for feature extraction from large datasets which are able to 
support high-dimensionality machine learning models. When this is not possible, CWRs can still be very 
valuable for feature extraction when coupled with dimensionality reduction and feature selection 
techniques. Due to the prevalence of feature extraction in our survey of IS literature, we feel that CWRs 
should be more widely used as it stands only to benefit IS research by reducing bias from mismeasurement 
[Yang 2018]. 
3. Multilingual TLMs enable DTL to leverage multilingual representations for cross-lingual analytics. While 
this is still an emerging topic in NLP research, models such as XLM-R [Conneau 2020] are able to maintain 
monolingual performance while also being able to generate valuable representations for other languages. 
This can be very useful for IS research because it enables analysis of the effects of culture on social media 
behavior, technology acceptance, technology use, etc., all without having to design an experiment involving 
multiple languages. Moreover, it enables the use of SOTA methods when working on datasets involving 
foreign language data so that research in elite IS journals does not have to rely on older, more rudimentary 
methods [Chau 2018]. 
5.2 Novel Applications & LUIs 
LUIs have been introduced as an incredibly promising area for IS research due to the recent progress in TLMs. 
While a full discussion of TLMs is beyond the scope of this paper, it is easy to see a path toward LUI research 
already emerging in the form of strong pretrained chatbots such as BlenderBot [Roller 2020a]. This chatbot is 
available open source38, including the pretrained 9.4 billion parameter model, which enables IS researchers to 
begin working directly on LUIs.  
Our literature review revealed few text analytics systems using design science, but LUIs will offer novel 
opportunities for using design science for artifact development and theorizing. Samtani et al. [2020] offer a 
strong template for such work, and we suggest that interested parties refer to it. We feel that this is a very strong 
potential area for research, and, because it is possible given existing technology, we suggest that interested IS 
researchers act fast to establish first mover advantage. We are eager and excited to see where research in this 
direction takes us. 
5.3 Guidelines for Methodological Novelty Using TLMs and CWRs 
TLMs offer a huge opportunity for researchers to improve upon previous SOTA results and to apply powerful 
NLP models to a wide variety of new applications which were previously not possible. With respect to improving 
upon SOTA, the ability of TLMs to do this is often related to the novelty and size of a training dataset rather 
than the novelty and methodological contributions of a technique. Thus, we encourage reviewers to be weary 
 
36 See: https://colab.research.google.com/github/tensorflow/tpu/blob/master/tools/colab/bert_finetuning_with_cloud_tpus.ipynb. 
37 Recall that pretraining schemes have a significant impact on downstream tasks: autoencoding models excel at discriminative tasks, 
autoregressive models excel at generative tasks, and sequence-to-sequence models attempt to balance performance between generative 
and discriminative tasks. Also recall that further fine-tuning and pre-finetuning can be utilized to enchance performance on many domain-
specific tasks. 
38 See footnote 24. 

26 
of papers employing TLMs which claim to make methodological contributions and to continue to seek theoretical 
contributions from novel studies using TLMs. However, this is not to say that methodological contributions 
cannot be made involving TLMs, but we suggest that it is necessary to compare results from proposed novel 
methods, like that of Chau et al. [2020], to static word representations as well as widely used CWRs. We further 
suggest that if TLMs or CWRs are used as a component of a proposed methodological contribution, the 
methodological contribution be made clear and robustly justified (e.g., specialized pretraining such as for Zhong 
et al. [2019]). The deep learning IS research template of Samtani et al. [2020] is also useful for this. 
5.4 TLM Scaling and Grounded Semantics 
AI practitioners anticipate a continued trend in the scaling of computational resources to continue to drive 
progress in AI research for the next decade [Gruetzemacher 2020]. Taken with recent research from OpenAI 
[Kaplan 2020; Brown 2020] this suggests that TLM progress will continue to improve dramatically, but that the 
costs of this increased performance will be non-trivial and may make research and operationalization of the 
most powerful TLMs quite costly, possibly even cost prohibitive. As noted, OpenAI has already begun licensing 
an API for the largest GPT-3 model through Microsoft; the prices are anticipated to be extreme for fine-tuning 
but more reasonable for few-shot learning. However, it is also difficult to anticipate how quickly progress to 
increase language model efficiency, such as adapters [Houlsby 2019], might progress and interact with the AI 
practitioner forecasts for scaling. 
If others follow the API licensing model, it has the potential to dramatically impact the future use of TLMs 
in both positive and negative ways. Most obviously, it could put TLM research and operationalization out of 
reach for many academics and firms, at least for lower priority projects. Alternately, the high cost of the service 
demands a user interface that ensures users will not waste their time with the API and incentivizes the provider 
to make the product easy to use and maximally effective. This could significantly impact firms’ adoption of TLMs 
as well as their use in research and is an interesting research question for future work. 
Continued progress in grounded semantics could also have a dramatic impact on the performance and 
practicality of TLMs. We feel strongly that higher levels of grounding, such as embodiment and social [Bisk 
2020], are certainly not necessary for language grounding to begin to start seeing practical applications. Again, 
it is difficult to anticipate how quickly progress may come, but it is likely that existing work, once refined, can 
have an impact on the use of TLMs in text analytics and for applications such as question answering or 
summarization.  
6 CONCLUSIONS 
In this work we reviewed two bodies of literature: 1) literature related to recent progress in NLP and 2) recent 
literature involving the application of text mining and NLP published in the top IS journals. While some of the 
technologies we have discussed may mature over an extended period of time, it is important for IS researchers 
to keep up with the SOTA and to incorporate it into research without haste. This is true for all methodological 
progress, but it is particularly important for TLMs, CWRs, multilingual TLMs and LUIs as they have the potential 
to drive novel forms of IS research and substantially alter human labor and organizational processes for which 
text data is significant component. Even if such technologies are not mature, it is important for IS researchers 
to preemptively develop theory and methods for researchers and practitioners to use when the technologies do 
mature. We feel strongly that the IS research community, by more closely following progress in the NLP domain, 

27 
can enhance the quality and value of their research contributions substantially. To these ends, we suggest the 
IS research community begin sponsoring workshops at the premier conferences (e.g., NeurIPS, ICLR, ICML, 
ACL and EMNLP39) for business applications of these technologies40.  
Overall, the literature and the ensuing discussion led us to conclude that transformer language models are 
poised to dramatically reshape the use of text analytics and NLP in IS research and practice. Moreover, by 
enabling technologies such as language user interfaces, they are likely to precipitate transformative change in 
organizations and in society. Taken together, these topics offer significant opportunities for future work in IS 
research and we look forward to seeing what the future holds. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS 
We thank Miles Brundage for comments on an earlier version of this manuscript. We also that anonymous 
reviewers from the 2020 Winter Conference on Business Analytics for pointing out the need for an independent 
survey paper on this topic. 
REFERENCES 
Abbas, A., Zhou, Y., Deng, S., and Zhang, P., 2018. “Text analytics to support sense-making in social media: A language-action 
perspective,” MIS Quarterly, 42(2), pp. 427-464. 
Abbasi, A., Li, J., Adjeroh, D., Abate, M., and Zheng, W. 2019. “Don’t Mention It? Analyzing User-Generated Content Signals for Early Adverse 
Event Warnings,” Information Systems Research, 30(3), pp.1007-1028. 
Adamopoulos, P., Ghose, A., and Todri, V. 2018. “The impact of user personality traits on word of mouth: Text-mining social media 
platforms,” Information Systems Research, 29(3), pp.612-640. 
Adhikari, A., Ram, A., Tang, R., and Lin, J. 2019. "Docbert: Bert for document classification," (arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.08398).  
Adiwardana, D., Luong, M., So, D., Hall, J., Fiedel, N., Thoppilan, R., Yang, Z., Kulshreshtha, A., Nemade, G., Lu, Y., and Le, Q.V. 2020. 
“Towards a human-like open-domain chatbot,” (arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.09977). 
Aghajanyan, A., Gupta, A., Shrivastava, A., Chen, X., Zettlemoyer, L. and Gupta, S., 2021. Muppet: Massive Multi-task Representations with 
Pre-Finetuning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2101.11038. 
Arazy, O., Lindberg, A., Rezaei, M., and Samorani, M. 2020. “The Evolutionary Trajectories of Peer-Produced Artifacts: Group Composition, 
the Trajectories’ Exploration, and the Quality of Artifacts,” MIS Quarterly, 44. 
Arora, S., May, A., Zhang, J., and Ré, C. 2020. "Contextual Embeddings: When Are They Worth It?" Proceedings of ACL 2020, pp. 2650–2663. 
Bapna, S., Benner, M.J., and Qiu, L. 2019. “Nurturing Online Communities: An Empirical Investigation,” MIS Quarterly, 43(2), pp. 425-452. 
Beltagy, I., Lo, K., and Cohan, A. 2019. "SciBERT: A pretrained language model for scientific text," Proceedings of EMNLP 2019, pp. 3615–
3620. 
Belz, A. 2019. "Deepfake News Generation: Methods, Detection and Wider Implications." Keynote address at the 12th International Conference 
on Natural Language Generation. Tokyo, Japan.  
Bengio, Y., Ducharme, R., Vincent, P., and Jauvin, C. 2003. A neural probabilistic language model. Journal of Machine Learning 
Research, 3(Feb), pp.1137-1155. 
Benjamin, V., Valacich, J.S., and Chen, H. 2019. “DICE-E: A Framework for Conducting Darknet Identification, Collection, Evaluation with 
Ethics,” MIS Quarterly, 43(1). 
Berant, J., Chou, A., Frostig, R., and Liang, P. 2013. "Semantic parsing on freebase from question-answer pairs," Proceedings of EMNLP 2013, 
pp. 1533-1544. 
Bianchi, F., Terragni, S., and Hovy, D. 2020. "Pre-training is a hot topic: Contextualized document embeddings improve topic 
coherence," Proceedings of First Workshop on Insights from Negative Results in NLP, pp. 32-40. 
Bisk, Y., Holtzman, A., Thomason, J., Andreas, J., Bengio, Y., Chai, J., Lapata, M., Lazaridou, A., May, J., Nisnevich, A. and Pinto, N. 2020. 
"Experience grounds language." Proceedings of EMNLP 2020, pp. 8718–8735. 
Blei, D., Ng, A., and Jordan, M. 2003. "Latent Dirichlet Allocation," Journal of Machine Learning Research, 3(Jan), pp. 993-1022. 
 
39 The Conference and Workshop on Neural Information Processing Systems; The International Conference on Learning Representations; 
The International Conference on Machine Learning; The Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational Linguistics; The 
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing. 
40 Content at the first three conferences would not be restricted to NLP but could involve any applications of AI and machine learning in 
business. For this reason, one of these three conferences would perhaps be the best place to start. 

28 
Blohm, I., Riedl, C., Füller, J., and Leimeister, J.M. 2016. “Rate or trade? Identifying winning ideas in open idea sourcing,” Information Systems 
Research, 27(1), pp.27-48. 
Bommasani, R., Hudson, D.A., Adeli, E., Altman, R., Arora, S., von Arx, S., Bernstein, M.S., Bohg, J., Bosselut, A., Brunskill, E., Brynjolfsson, 
E., … and Liang, P. 2021. On the Opportunities and Risks of Foundation Models. arXiv preprint arXiv:2108.07258. 
Brennan, S. E. 1991. "Conversation With and Through Computers," User Modeling and User-Adapted Interaction 1(1), pp. 67-86. 
Brown, T., Mann, B., Ryder, N., Subbiah, M., Kaplan, J., Dhariwal, P., Neelakantan, A., Shyam, P., Sastry, G., Askell, A., Agarwal, S., Herbert-
Voss, A., Krueger, G., Henighan, T., Child, R., Ramesh, A., Ziegler, D., Wu., J., Winter, C., Hesse, C., Chen, M., Sigler, E., Litwin, M., 
Gray, S., Chess, B., Clark, J., Berner, C., McCandlish., S, Radford, A., Sutskever, I., Amodei, D. 2020. “Language models are few-shot 
learners.” Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. 
Brynjolfsson, E., and Benzell, S., and Rock., D. 2020. Understanding and Addressing the Modern Productivity Paradox, MIT Work of the Future 
Task Force. 
Cao, Y., Liu, H., and Wan, X. 2020. "Jointly Learning to Align and Summarize for Neural Cross-Lingual Summarization." Proceedings of ACL 
2020, pp. 6220–6231. 
Chatterjee, A., Narahari, K.N., Joshi, M., and Agrawal, P. 2019. "Semeval-2019 Task 3: Emocontext Contextual Emotion Detection in Text," 
Proceedings of 13th International Workshop on Semantic Evaluation, pp. 39-48. 
Chatterjee, A., Gupta, U., Chinnakotla, M.K., Srikanth, R., Galley, M., and Agrawal, P. 2019. “Understanding Emotions in Text Using Deep 
Learning and Big Data,” Computers in Human Behavior, 93, pp. 309-317. 
Chau, M., Li, T.M., Wong, P.W., Xu, J.J., Yip, P.S. and Chen, H. 2020. "Finding People with Emotional Distress in Online Social Media: A 
Design Combining Machine Learning and Rule-Based Classification," MIS Quarterly, 44(2), pp. 933-953. 
Chaudhary, Y., Gupta, P., Saxena, K., Kulkarni, V., Runkler, T., and Shütze, H. 2020 “TopicBERT for Energy Efficient Document 
Classification,” Proceedings of EMNLP 2020, pp. 1682-1690. 
Cheang, B., Wei, B., Kogan, D., Qiu, H., and Ahmed, M. 2020. "Language Representation Models for Fine-Grained Sentiment 
Classification," (arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.13619). 
Chen, H., Chiang, R., and Storey, V. 2012. "Business intelligence and analytics: From big data to big impact," MIS Quarterly 36(4), pp. 1165-
1188. 
Chen, K., Li, X., Luo, P., and Zhao, J.L. 2020. “News-Induced Dynamic Networks for Market Signaling: Understanding Impact of News on Firm 
Equity Value,” Information Systems Research. 
Chen, L., Baird, A., and Straub, D. 2019. “Fostering Participant Health Knowledge and Attitudes: An Econometric Study of a Chronic Disease-
Focused Online Health Community,” Journal of Management Information Systems, 36(1), pp.194-229. 
Chen, W., Gu, B., Ye, Q., and Zhu, K. 2019. “Measuring and managing the externality of managerial responses to online customer 
reviews,” Information Systems Research, 30(1), pp. 81-96. 
Chen, Y., Ma, Y., Mao, Y., and Li., Q. 2019. "Multi-Task Learning for Abstractive and Extractive Summarization," Data Science and Engineering, 
4(1), pp. 14-23. 
Chen, Z., Trabelsi, M., Heflin, J., Xu, Y., and Davison, B.D. 2020. “Table Search Using a Deep Contextualized Language Model,” Proceedings 
of 43rd International ACM SIGIR Conference on Research and Development in Information Retrieval, pp. 589–598. 
Cho, H., Knijinenburg, B., Kobsa, A., and Li, Y. 2018. "Collective Privacy Management in Social Media: A Cross-Cultural Validation," ACM 
Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction 25(3), pp. 1-33. 
Choromanski, K., Likhosherstov, V., Dohan, D., Song, X., Gane, A., Sarlos, T., Hawkins, P., Davis, J., Mohiuddin, A., Kaiser, L., and Belanger, 
D. 2021. "Rethinking Attention With Performers." Proceedings of ICLR 2021.  
Chung, J., Gulcehre, C., Cho, K. and Bengio, Y., 2014. Empirical evaluation of gated recurrent neural networks on sequence modeling. NIPS 
2014 Workshop on Deep Learning. 
Chung, S., Animesh, A., Han, K., and Pinsonneault, A. 2020. “Financial returns to firms’ communication actions on firm-initiated social media: 
evidence from Facebook business pages,” Information Systems Research, 31(1), pp.258-285. 
Clark, P., Etzioni, O., Khashabi, D., Khot, T., Mishra, B.D., Richardson, K., Sabharwal, A., Schoenick, C., Tafjord, O., Tandon, N., and 
Bhakthavatsalam, S. 2019. “From 'F' to 'A' on the NY Regents Science Exams: An Overview of the Aristo Project.” Allen AI. (arXiv preprint 
arXiv:1909.01958). 
Collobert, R., Weston, J., Bottou, L., Karlen, M., Kavukcuoglu, K., and Kuksa, P. 2011. “Natural language processing (almost) from 
scratch,” Journal of machine learning research, 12, pp.2493-2537. 
Collobert, R. and Weston, J. 2008. “A unified architecture for natural language processing: Deep neural networks with multitask 
learning,” Proceedings of ICML 2008, pp. 160-167. 
Conneau, A., Khandelwal, K., Goyal, N., Chaudhary, V., Wenzek, G., Guzmán, F., Grave, E., Ott, M., Zettlemoyer, L., and Stoyanov, V. 2019. 
"Unsupervised cross-lingual representation learning at scale," Proceedings of ACL 2020, pp. 8440-8451. 
Cortés, K., Duchin, R., and Sosyura, D. 2016. “Clouded judgment: The role of sentiment in credit origination.” Journal of Financial 
Economics, 121(2), pp.392-413. 
Dai, Z., Yang, Z., Yang, Y., Carbonell, J., Le, Q.V., and Salakhutdinov, R. 2019. “Transformer-xl: Attentive Language Models Beyond a Fixed-
Length Context,” Proceedings of ACL 2019, pp. 2978–2988 
Deng, S., Huang, Z., Sinha, A., and Zhao, H. 2018. “The Interaction Between Microblog Sentiment and Stock Return: An Empirical 
Examination,” MIS Quarterly, 42(3), pp. 895-918. 
de Vries, H., Bahdanau, D., and Manning, C. 2020. "Towards Ecologically Valid Research on Language User Interfaces," (arXiv preprint 

29 
arXiv:2007.14435). 
Devlin, J., Chang, M.W., Lee, K., and Toutanova, K. 2018. “Bert: Pre-Training of Deep Bidirectional Transformers for Language 
Understanding,” Proceedings of NAACL 2019, pp. 4171-4186. 
Dong, W., Liao, S., and Zhang, Z. 2018. “Leveraging Financial Social Media Data for Corporate Fraud Detection,” Journal of Management 
Information Systems, 35(2), pp.461-487. 
Duan, X., Yu, H., Mingming, Y., Zhang, M., Luo, W., and Zhang, Y. 2019. "Contrastive Attention Mechanism for Abstractive Sentence 
Summarization," Proceedings of EMNLP 2019, pp. 3044-3053. 
Fountaine, T., McCarthy, B., and Saleh, T. 2019. “Building the AI-Powered Organization,” Harvard Business Review, 97(4), pp.62-73. 
George, J., Gupta, M., Giordano, G., Mills, A., Tennant, V., and Lewis, C. 2018. “The Effects of Communication Media and Culture on Deception 
Detection Accuracy,” MIS Quarterly, 42(2), pp. 551-575. 
Ghiassi, M., Zimbra, D., and Lee, S., 2016. “Targeted Twitter Sentiment Analysis for Brands Using Supervised Feature Engineering and the 
Dynamic Architecture for Artificial Neural Networks,” Journal of Management Information Systems, 33(4), pp.1034-1058. 
Ghosal, D., Majumder, N., Gelbukh, A., Mihalcea, R., and Poria, S. 2020. "COSMIC: COmmonSense knowledge for eMotion Identification in 
Conversations," (arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.02795). 
Gong, J., Abhishek, V. and Li, B., 2017. Examining the Impact of Keyword Ambiguity on Search Advertising Performance: A Topic Model 
Approach,” MIS Quarterly 43(3), pp. 805-829. 
Gonzalez, G. H., Tahsin, T., Goodale, B. C., Greene, A. C., and Greene, C. S. 2016. "Recent advances and emerging applications in text and 
data mining for biomedical discovery." Briefings in Bioinformatics, 17(1), pp. 33-42. 
Gruetzemacher, R., Paradice, D., and Lee, K.B. 2020. "Forecasting extreme labor displacement: A survey of AI practitioners," Technological 
Forecasting and Social Change, 161. 
Gu, Y., and Hu, Y. 2019. "Extractive Summarization with Very Deep Pretrained Language Model," International Journal of Artificial Intelligence 
and Applications, 10(2), pp. 27-32. 
Gyawali, B., Anastasiou, L., and Knoth, P. 2020. “Deduplication of Scholarly Documents using Locality Sensitive Hashing and Word 
Embeddings,” Proceedings of 12th Language Resources and Evaluation Conference, pp. 901-910. 
Hao, Jie, Wang, X., Shi, S., Zhang, J., and Tu, Z. 2019. "Multi-Granularity Self-Attention for Neural Machine Translation," Proceedings of 
EMNLP 2019, pp. 887-897. 
He, P., Liu, X., Gao, J. and Chen, W., 2021. “Deberta: Decoding-enhanced bert with disentangled attention.” International Conference on 
Learning Representations. 
Heimbach, I., and Hinz, O. 2018. "The impact of sharing mechanism design on content sharing in online social networks," Information Systems 
Research, 29(3), pp. 592-611. 
Hochreiter, S., and Schmidhuber, J. 1997. "Long short-term memory," Neural Computation, 9(8), pp. 1735-1780. 
Houlsby, N., Giurgiu, A., Jastrzebski, S., Morrone, B., DeLaroussilhe, Q., Gesmundo, A., Attariyan, M., and Gelly, S. 2019. "Parameter-efficient 
transfer learning for NLP," Proceedings of the International Conference on Machine Learning, pp. 2790-2799. 
Howard, J., and Ruder, S. 2018. "Universal language model fine-tuning for text classification," (arXiv preprint arXiv:1801.06146). 
Hoyle, A., Goel. P., and Resnik, P. 2020. "Improving Neural Topic Models using Knowledge Distillation," Proceedings of EMNLP 2020, pp. 
1752-1771. 
Hu, J., Ruder, S., Siddhant, A., Neubig, G., Firat, O., and Johnson, M. 2020. "Xtreme: A massively multilingual multi-task benchmark for 
evaluating cross-lingual generalization." Proceedings of ICML 2020, pp. 4411-4421. 
Huang, J, Meng, Y., Guo, F., Ji, H., and Han, J. 2020. "Weakly-supervised aspect-based sentiment analysis via joint aspect-sentiment topic 
embedding,” (arXiv preprint arXiv:2010.06705). 
Huang, J., Boh, W., and Goh, K. 2017. "A temporal study of the effects of online opinions: Inform-ation sources matter," Journal of Management 
Information Systems, 34(4), pp. 1169-1202. 
Huang, K. Y., Chengalur-Smith, I., and Pinsonneault, A. 2019. "Sharing is Caring: Social Support Provision and Companionship Activities in 
Healthcare Virtual Support Communities," MIS Quarterly, 43(2), pp. 395-424. 
Huang, N., Hong, Y., and Burtch, G. 2017. "Social network integration and user content generation: Evidence from natural experiments," MIS 
Quarterly, 41(4), pp. 1035-1058. 
Huang, P., Zhang, H., Jiang, R., Stanforth, R., Welbl, J., Rae, J., Maini, V., Yogatama, D., and Kohli, P. 2019. “Reducing sentiment bias in 
language models via counterfactual evaluation,” Proceedings of EMNLP 2019, pp. 65-83. 
Hwang, E. H., Singh, P. V., and Argote, L. 2019. "Jack of all, master of some: Information network and innovation in crowdsourcing 
communities," Information Systems Research, 30(2) pp. 389-410. 
Jiang, F., Lee, J., Martin, X., and Zhou, G. 2019. "Manager Sentiment and Stock Returns," Journal of Financial Economics, 132(1), pp. 126-
149. 
Jin, H., Wang, T., and Wan, X. 2020. "Multi-Granularity Interaction Network for Extractive and Abstractive Multi-Document Summarization," 
Proceedings of ACL 2020, pp. 6244-6254. 
Kaplan, J., McCandlish, S., Henighan, T., Brown, T., Chess, B., Child, R., Gray, S., Radford, A., Wu, J., Amodei, D. 2020. Scaling laws for 
neural language models, OpenAI. (arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.08361). 
Ke, P., Ji, H., Liu, S., Zhu, X., and Huang, M. 2020. "SentiLARE: Linguistic Knowledge Enhanced Language Representation for Sentiment 
Analysis," Proceedings of EMNLP 2020, pp. 6975-6988. 

30 
Keskar, N. S., McCann, B., Varshney, L. R., Xiong, C., and Socher, R. 2019. "CTRL: A Conditional Transformer Language Model for 
Controllable Generation," (arXiv preprint arXiv:1909.05858). 
Khashabi, D., Khot, T., Sabharwal, A., Tafjord, O., Clark, P., and Hajishirzi, H. 2020. “UnifiedQA: Crossing Format Boundaries With a Single 
QA System,” Proceedings of EMNLP 2020, pp. 1896-1907. 
Khern-am-nuai, W, Kannan, K., and Ghasemkhani, H. 2018. "Extrinsic Versus Intrinsic Rewards for Contributing Reviews in an Online Platform," 
Information Systems Research, 29(4), pp. 871-892. 
Kitaev, N., Kaiser, Ł., and Levskaya, A. 2020. "Reformer: The Efficient Transformer." Proceedings of ICLR 2020. 
Kraus, M., and Feuerriegel, S. 2017. "Decision support from financial disclosures with deep neural networks and transfer learning," Decision 
Support Systems, 104, pp. 38-48. 
Kraus, M., Feuerriegel, S., and Oztekin, A. 2020. "Deep learning in business analytics and operations research: Models, applications and 
managerial implications," European Journal of Operational Research, 281(3), pp. 628-641. 
Kryściński, W., Keshkar, N. S., McCann, B., Xiong, C., and Socher, R. 2019. "Neural text summarization: A critical evaluation," Proceedings of 
EMNLP 2019, pp. 540-551. 
Kumar, N., Venugopal, D., Qiu, L., and Kumar, S. 2019. "Detecting Anomalous Online Reviewers: an Unsupervised Approach Using Mixture 
Models," Journal of Management Information Systems, 36(4), pp. 1313-1346. 
Lappas, T., Sabnis, G., and Valkanas, G. 2016. "The Impact of Fake Reviews on Online Visibility: A Vulnerability Assessment of the Hotel 
Industry," Information Systems Research, 27(4), pp. 940-961. 
Lan, Z., Chen, M., Goodman, S., Gimpel, K., Sharma., P., and Soricut, R. 2019. "ALBERT: A Lite BERT for Self-Supervised Learning of 
Language Representations." Proceedings of ICLR 2019. 
LeCun, Y., Bengio, Y. and Hinton, G., 2015. “Deep Learning.” Nature, (521), pp.436-444.  
Lee, G.M., He, S., Lee, J., and Whinston, A.B. 2020. “Matching Mobile Applications for Cross-Promotion.” Information Systems 
Research, 31(3), pp.865-891. 
Lewis, M., Liu, Y., Goyal, N., Ghazvininejad, M., Mohamed, A., Levy, O., Stoyanov, V. and Zettlemoyer, L., 2020a. “Bart: Denoising sequence-
to-sequence pre-training for natural language generation, translation, and comprehension.” Proceedings of ACL 2020. 
Lewis, M., Ghazvininejad, M., Ghosh, G., Aghajanyan, A., Wang, S. and Zettlemoyer, L., 2020b. “Pre-training via paraphrasing.” Advances in 
Neural information Processing Systems. 
Lewis, P., Perez, E., Piktus, A., Petroni, F., Karpukhin, V., Goyal, N., Küttler, H., Lewis, M., Yih, W.T., Rocktäschel, T. and Riedel, S., 2020c. 
Retrieval-augmented generation for knowledge-intensive nlp tasks. Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. 
Li, J., Larsen, K., and Abbasi, A. 2020. "TheoryOn: A Design Framework and System for Unlocking Behavioral Knowledge Through Ontology 
Learning," MIS Quarterly, 44(4), pp. 1733-1772. 
Li, M., et al. "Applying BERT to Analyze Investor Sentiment in Stock Market,” Neural Computing and Applications. 
Li, W., Chen, H., and Nunamaker, J. F. 2016. "Identifying and Profiling Key Sellers in Cyber Carding Community: AZSecure Text Mining 
System," Journal of Management Information Systems, 33(4), pp. 1059-1086. 
Li, X., Bing, L., Zhang, W., and Lam, W. 2019. "Exploiting BERT for End-to-End Aspect-Based Sentiment Analysis," Proceedings of 2019 
EMNLP Workshop W-NUT, pp. 34-41. 
Liang, H., Xue, Y., Pinsonneault, A., and Wu, Y. 2019. "What Users Do Besides Problem-Focused Coping When Facing IT Security Threats: 
An Emotion-Focused Coping Perspective," MIS Quarterly, 43(2), pp. 373-394. 
Liang, Y., Duan, N., Gong, Y., Wu, N., Guo, F., Qi, W., Gong, M., Shou, L., Jiang, D., Cao, G., Fan, X., Zhang, R., Agrawal, R., Cui, E., Wei, 
S., Bhiarti, T., Qiao, Y., Chen, J.-H., Wu., W., Liu, S., Yang, F., Campos, D., Majumder, R., and Zhou, M. 2020. "XGLUE: A New 
Benchmark Dataset for Cross-Lingual Pre-Training, Understanding and Generation," Proceedings of EMNLP 2020, pp. 6008-6018. 
Lieber, O., Sharir, O., Lenz, B. and Shoham, Y. 2021. “Jurrasic-1: Technical Details and Evaluation.” White Paper, AI21 Labs. 
Liu, X., Zhang, B., Susarla, A., and Padman, R. 2020a. "Go to YouTube and Call Me in the Morning: Use of Social Media for Chronic Conditions,” 
MIS Quarterly, 44(1b), pp. 257-283.. 
Liu, X., He, P., Chen, W., and Gao, J. 2019a. "Multi-Task Deep Neural Networks for Natural Language Understanding," Proceedings of ACL 
2019, pp. 4487-4496. 
Liu, X., Wang, G. A., Fan, W., and Zhang, Z. 2020b. "Finding Useful Solutions in Online Knowledge Communities: A Theory-Driven Design and 
Multilevel Analysis," Information Systems Research, 31(3). 
Liu, Y., and Lapata, M. 2019. "Text Summarization With Pretrained Encoders," Proceedings of EMNLP 2019b, pp. 3730-3740. 
Liu, Y., Ott, M., Goyal, N., Du, J., Joshi, M., Chen, D., Levy, O., Lewis, M., Zettlemoyer, L. and Stoyanov, V. 2019c. "RoBERTa: A Robustly 
Optimized BERT Pretraining Approach," (arXiv preprint arXiv:1907.11692). 
Liu, Y., Pant, G., and Sheng, O. R. L. 2020c. "Predicting Labor Market Competition: Leveraging Interfirm Network and Employee Skills," 
Information Systems Research, forthcoming. 
Lu, Y., Dong, Y., and Charlin, L. 2020. "Multi-XScience: A Large-scale Dataset for Extreme Multi-document Summarization of Scientific 
Articles." Proceedings of EMNLP 2020, pp. 8068-8074. 
Ma, X., Sap, M., Rashkin, H., and Choi, Y. 2020. "PowerTransformer: Unsupervised Controllable Revision for Biased Language 
Correction." Proceedings of EMNLP 2020, pp. 7426-7441.  
Mai, F., Shan, Z., Bai, Q., Wang, X., and Chiang, R. H. L. 2018. "How does social media impact Bitcoin value? A Test of the Silent Majority 
Hypothesis," Journal of Management Information Systems, 35(1), pp. 19-52. 

31 
Manning, C., and Schütze, H. 1999. Foundations of Statistical Natural Language Processing, Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press. 
Maynez, J., Narayan, S., Bohnet, B., and McDonald, R. 2020. "On Faithfulness and Factuality in Abstractive Summarization," Proceedings of 
EMNLP 2020, pp. 1906-1919. 
McCann, B., Bradbury, J., Xiong, C., and Socher, R. 2017. "Learned in Translation: Contextualized Word Vectors," Advances in Neural 
Information Processing Systems. 
Mejia, J., Mankad, S., and Gopal, A. 2019. "A for Effort? Using the Crowd to Identify Moral Hazard in New York City Restaurant Hygiene 
Inspections," Information Systems Research, 30(4), pp. 1363-1386. 
Mikolov, T., Sutskever, I., Chen, K., Corrado, G.S. and Dean, J., 2013a. Distributed representations of words and phrases and their 
compositionality. In Advances in neural information processing systems (pp. 3111-3119). 
Mikolov, T., Chen, K., Corrado, G. S., and Dean, J. 2013b. "Efficient Estimation of Word Representations in Vector Space," Proceedings of 
ICLR 2013. 
Mikolov, T., Joulin, A., Chopra, S, Mathieu, M., and Ranzato, M.A. 2014. "Learning Longer Memory in Recurrent Neural Networks," (arXiv 
preprint arXiv:1412.7753).  
Moreno, A., and Redondo, T. 2016. "Text Analytics: The Convergence of Big Data and Artificial Intelligence," International Journal of Interactive 
Multimedia and Artificial Intelligence, 3(6), pp. 57-64. 
Frank, M. R., Autor, D. Bessen, J. E., Brynjolfsson, E., Cebrian, M., Deming, D. J., Feldman, M., Groh, M., Lobo, J., Moro, E., and Wang, D. 
2019. "Toward Understanding the Impact of Artificial Intelligence on Labor," Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, 116(14), 
pp. 6531-6539. 
Mousavi, R., and Gu, B. 2019. "The Impact of Twitter Adoption on Lawmakers’ Voting Orientations," Information Systems Research, 30(1), pp. 
133-153. 
Mousavi, R., Johar, M., and Mookerjee, V. J. "The Voice of the Customer: Managing Customer Care in Twitter," Information Systems Research, 
31(2), pp. 340-360. 
Müller, M., Salathé, M., and Kummervold, P. E. 2020. "COVID-Twitter-BERT: A Natural Language Processing Model to Analyse COVID-19 
Content on Twitter," (arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.07503). 
Murphy, K. P. 2012. Machine Learning: A Probabilistic Perspective. Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT press. 
Narayan, S., Cohen, S. B., and Lapata, M. 2019. "What is this Article about? Extreme Summarization with Topic-aware Convolutional Neural 
Networks,” Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research, 66, pp. 243-278. 
Naseem, U., Razzak, I., Musial, K. and Imran, M. 2020. "Transformer based deep intelligent contextual embedding for twitter sentiment 
analysis," Future Generation Computer Systems, 113, pp. 58-69. 
Ngai, E. W. T., and Lee, P. T. Y. 2016. "A Review of the Literature on Applications of Text Mining in Policy Making," Proceedings of PACIS 
2016. 
Nguyen, D. Q., Vu, T., and Nguyen, A. T.. "BERTweet: A Pre-Trained Language Model for English Tweets," Proceedings of EMNLP 2020: 
Demonstrations, pp. 9-14.  
Pan, Y., Huang, P., and Gopal, A. 2019. "Storm Clouds on the Horizon? New Entry Threats and R&D Investments in the US IT Industry," 
Information Systems Research, 30(2), pp. 540-562. 
Park, J., Park, C., Kim, J., Cho, M., and Park, S. 2019. "ADC: Advanced Document Clustering using Contextualized Representations," Expert 
Systems with Applications, 137, pp. 157-166. 
Pennington, J., Socher, R., and Manning, C. 2014. "Glove: Global vectors for word representation." Proceedings of EMNLP 2014, pp. 1532-
1543.  
Peters, M., Neumann, M., Iyyer, M., Gardner, M, Clark, C., Lee, K., and Zettlemoyer, L. 2018 "Deep contextualized word representations." 
Proceedings of NAACL 2018, pp. 2227-2237. 
Radford, A., Narasimhan, K., Salimans, T., and Sutskever, I. 2018. Improving Language Understanding by Generative Pre-Training, OpenAI.  
Radford, A., Wu, J., Child, R., Luan, D., Amodei, D., and Sutskever, I. 2019. Language Models are Unsupervised Multitask Learners, OpenAI. 
Raffel, C., Shazeer, N., Roberts, A., Lee, K., Narang, S., Matena, M., Zhou, Y., Li, W. and Liu, P.J.,2020. "Exploring the Limits of Transfer 
Learning with a Unified Text-to-Text Transformer," Journal of Machine Learning Research, 21(140):1−67. 
Reimers, N., Schiller, B., Beck, T., Daxenberger, J., Stab, C., and Gurevych, I. 2019. "Classification and Clustering of Arguments with 
Contextualized Word Embeddings," Proceedings of ACL 2019, pp. 567-578 
Rhue, L., and Sundararajan, A. 2019. "Playing to the Crowd? Digital Visibility and the Social Dynamics of Purchase Disclosure," MIS Quarterly, 
43(4), pp. 1127-1141. 
Rocklage, M. D., and Fazio, R. H. "The Enhancing Versus Backfiring Effects of Positive Emotion in Consumer Reviews," Journal of Marketing 
Research, 57(2), pp. 332-352. 
Roller, S., Dinan, E., Goyal, N., Ju, D., Williamson, M., Liu, Y., Xu, J., Ott, M., Shuster, K., Smith, E.M., and Boureau, Y.L. 2020a. "Recipes for 
Building an Open-Domain Chatbot," (arXiv preprint arXiv:2004.13637).  
Roller, S., Boureau, Y.L., Weston, J., Bordes, A., Dinan, E., Fan, A., Gunning, D., Ju, D., Li, M., Poff, S., and Ringshia, P. 2020b. "Open-Domain 
Conversational Agents: Current Progress, Open Problems, and Future Directions," (arXiv preprint arXiv:2006.12442).  
Saifee, D. H., Bardhan, I.R., Lahiri, A., and Zheng, Z. 2019. "Adherence to Clinical Guidelines, Electronic Health Record Use, and Online 
Reviews," Journal of Management Information Systems 36(4), pp. 1071-1104. 
Salant, S., and Berant, J. 2018. "Contextualized Word Representations for Reading Comprehension," Proceedings of NAACL 2018, pp. 554-

32 
559. 
Salo, M., Mykkänen, M., and Hekkala, R. 2020. "The Interplay of IT Users’ Coping Strategies: Uncovering Momentary Emotional Load, Routes, 
and Sequences,” MIS Quarterly, 44(3), pp. 1143-1175. 
Samtani, S., Chinn, R, Chen, H., and Nunamaker, J. F. 2017. "Exploring emerging hacker assets and key hackers for proactive cyber threat 
intelligence," Journal of Management Information Systems, 34(4), pp. 1023-1053. 
Samtani, S., Zhu, H., Padmanabhan, B., Chai, Y., and Chen, H. 2020. “Deep Learning for Information Systems Research,” (arXiv preprint 
arXiv:2010.05774). 
Sanh, V., Debut, L., Chaumond, J., and Wolf, T. 2019. "DistilBERT, a Distilled Version of BERT: Smaller, Faster, Cheaper and Lighter," NeurIPS 
Workshop on Energy Efficient Machine Learning and Cognitive Computing. 
Schick, T., and Schütze, H. 2020. "It's Not Just Size That Matters: Small Language Models Are Also Few-Shot Learners," (arXiv preprint 
arXiv:2009.07118). 
Schwartz, D., Toneva, M., and Wehbe, L. 2019. "Inducing brain-relevant bias in natural language processing models," Advances in Neural 
Information Processing Systems. 
Scialom, T., Dray, P.-A., Lamprier, S., Piwowarski, B., and Staiano, J. 2020. "MLSUM: The Multilingual Summarization Corpus." Proceedings 
of EMNLP 2020, pp. 8051-8067. 
Shi, D., Guan, J., Zurada, J., and Manikas, A. 2017. "A Data-Mining Approach to Identification of Risk Factors in Safety Management Systems," 
Journal of Management Information Systems, 34(4), pp. 1054-1081. 
Shi, Z., Lee, G. M., and Whinston, A. B. 2016. "Toward a Better Measure of Business Proximity: Topic Modeling for Industry Intelligence," MIS 
Quarterly, 40(4), pp. 1035-1056. 
Shin, D., He, S., Lee, G.M., Whinston, A.B., Cetintas, S. and Lee, K.C. 2019. "Enhancing Social Media Analysis with Visual Data Analytics: A 
Deep Learning Approach," MIS Quarterly, 2020. 
Sia, S., Dalmia, A., and Mielke, S. J. "Tired of Topic Models? Clusters of Pretrained Word Embedd-ings Make for Fast and Good Topics 
too!,” Proceedings of EMNLP 2020, pp. 1728-1736. 
Siering, M., Koch, J. and Deokar, A. 2016. "Detecting Fraudulent Behavior on Crowdfunding Platforms: The Role of Linguistic and Content-
Based Cues in Static and Dynamic Contexts," Journal of Management Information Systems, 33(2), pp. 421-455. 
Silver, D., Schrittwieser, J., Simonyan, K., Antonoglou, I., Huang, A., Guez, A., Hubert, T., Baker, L., Lai, M., Bolton, A., and Chen, Y. 2017. 
"Mastering the Game of Go Without Human Knowledge," Nature, 550(7676), pp. 354-359. 
Smith, N. A. 2020. "Contextual word representations: putting words into computers." Communications of the ACM 63(6), pp. 66-74. 
Song, T., Huang, J., Tan, Y., and Yu, Y. 2019. "Using User-and Marketer-Generated Content for Box Office Revenue Prediction: Differences 
Between Microblogging and Third-Party Platforms," Information Systems Research, 30(1), pp. 191-203. 
Stiennon, N., Ouyang, L., Wu, J., Ziegler, D., Lowe, R., Voss, C., Radford, A., Amodei, D., and Christiano, P.F. 2020. "Learning to Summarize 
with Human Feedback," Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 33. 
Sun, C., Qiu, X., Xu, Y., and Huang, X. 2019. "How to Fine-Tune BERT for Text Classification?," China National Conference on Chinese 
Computational Linguistics, Springer, pp. 194-206. 
Sun, Y., Wang, S., Feng, S., Ding, S., Pang, C., Shang, J., Liu, J., Chen, X., Zhao, Y., Lu, Y. and Liu, W., 2021. ERNIE 3.0: Large-scale 
Knowledge Enhanced Pre-training for Language Understanding and Generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.02137. 
Tan, H., and Bansal, M. 2019. "LXMERT: Learning Cross-Modality Encoder Representations from Transformers," Proceedings of EMNLP, pp. 
5100-5111. 
Tan, H., and Bansal, M. 2020. "Vokenization: Improving Language Understanding with Contextualized, Visual-Grounded 
Supervision," Proceedings of EMNLP, pp. 2066-2080. 
Tay, Y., Dehghani, M., Gupta, J., Bahri, D., Aribandi, V., Qin, Z. and Metzler, D., 2021. Are Pre-trained Convolutions Better than Pre-trained 
Transformers?. Proceedings of ACL 2021. 
Turing, A. M. 1950. "Computing Machinery and Intelligence," Mind, 59(236), pp. 433-460. 
Van Osch, W., and Steinfield, C. W. 2018. "Strategic Visibility in Enterprise Social Media: Implications for Network Formation and Boundary 
Spanning," Journal of Management Information Systems, 35(2), pp. 647-682. 
Vaswani, A., Chang, M.W., Lee, K., and Toutanova, K. 2017. "Attention is all You Need," Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems. 
Velichety, S., Ram, S., and Bockstedt, J. "Quality Assessment of Peer-Produced Content in Knowledge Repositories Using Development and 
Coordination Activities," Journal of Management Information Systems, 36(2), pp. 478-512. 
Wang, A., Singh, A., Michael, J., Hill, F., Levy, O., and Bowman, S.R. 2018a. "GLUE: A Multi-Task Benchmark and Analysis Platform for Natural 
Language Understanding," EMNLP Workshop on BlackBox NLP, pp 353-355. 
Wang, A., Pruksachatkun, Y., Nangia, N., Singh, A., Michael, J., Hill, F., Levy, O., and Bowman, S. 2019a. "SuperGLUE: A Stickier Benchmark 
for General-Purpose Language Understanding Systems," Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems.  
Wang, Q., Li, B., and Singh, P. V. 2018b. "Copycats vs. Original Mobile Apps: A Machine Learning Copycat-Detection Method and Empirical 
Analysis," Information Systems Research, 29(2), pp. 273-291. 
Wang, X., and Liu, Z. 2019b. "Online Engagement in Social Media: A Cross-Cultural Comparison,” Computers in Human Behavior, 97, pp. 137-
150. 
Wang, Z., Jiang, C., Zhao, H., and Ding, Y. 2020. "Mining Semantic Soft Factors for Credit Risk Evaluation in Peer-to-Peer Lending," Journal 
of Management Information Systems, 37(1), pp. 282-308. 

33 
Wang, Z., Tsvetkov, Y., Firat, O., and Cao, Y. 2021a. "Gradient Vaccine: Investigating and Improving Multi-task Optimization in Massively 
Multilingual Models," Proceedings of ICLR 2021.  
Wang, Z., Yu, A.W., Firat, O. and Cao, Y., 2021b. Towards Zero-Label Language Learning. arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.09193. 
Wei, J., Bosma, M., Zhao, V.Y., Guu, K., Yu, A.W., Lester, B., Du, N., Dai, A.M. and Le, Q.V., 2021. Finetuned language models are zero-shot 
learners. arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.01652. 
Wolf, T., Chaumond, J., Debut, L., Sanh, V., Delangue, C., Moi, A., Cistac, P., Funtowicz, M., Davison, J., Shleifer, S., and Louf, R. 2020. 
"Transformers: State-of-the-Art Natural Language Processing," Proceedings of EMNLP 2020: Demonstrations, pp. 38-45. 
Wu, C.S., Hoi, S., Socher, R., and Xiong, C. 2020. "TOD-BERT: Pre-Trained Natural Language Understanding for Task-Oriented 
Dialogues." Proceedings of EMNLP 2020, pp. 917-929. 
Wu, J., Huang, L., and Zhao, J. L. 2019. "Operationalizing Regulatory Focus in the Digital Age: Evidence from an E-Commerce Context," MIS 
Quarterly, 43(3), pp. 745-764. 
Wu, J., Ouyang, L., Ziegler, D.M., Stiennon, N., Lowe, R., Leike, J. and Christiano, P., 2021. Recursively summarizing books with human 
feedback. arXiv preprint arXiv:2109.10862. 
Xia, P., Wu, S., and Van Durme, B. 2020. "Which* BERT? A Survey Organizing Contextualized Encoders," Proceedings of EMNLP 2020, pp. 
7516-7533. 
Xu, H., Liu, B., Shu, L., and Yu, P.S. 2019. "BERT Post-Training for Review Reading Compre-hension and Aspect-based Sentiment Analysis," 
Proceedings of NAACL 2019, pp. 2324-2335.  
Xu, K., Ba, J., Kiros, R., Cho, K., Courville, A., Salakhudinov, R., Zemel, R. and Bengio, Y., 2015, June. Show, attend and tell: Neural image 
caption generation with visual attention. In International conference on machine learning (pp. 2048-2057). PMLR. 
Xu, Y., and Lapata, M. 2020. "Coarse-to-Fine Query Focused Multi-Document Summarization,” Proceedings of EMNLP 2020, pp. 3632-3645. 
Yang, M., Adomavicius, G., Burtch, G., and Ren, Y. 2018. "Mind the Gap: Accounting for Measurement Error and Misclassification in Variables 
Generated via Data Mining," Information Systems Research, 29(1), pp. 4-24. 
Yang, R., Cao, J., Wen, Z., Wu, Y., and He, X. 2020. "Enhancing Automated Essay Scoring Performance via Cohesion Measurement and 
Combination of Regression and Ranking," Proceedings EMNLP 2020: Findings, pp. 1560-1569. 
Yang, Z., Dai, Z., Yang, Y., Carbonell, J., Salakhutdinov, R.R., and Le, Q.V. 2019. "XLNet: Generalized Autoregressive Pretraining for Language 
Understanding," Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems.  
Yao, L., Jin, Z., Mao, C., Zhang, Y. and Luo, Y. 2019. "Traditional Chinese Medicine Clinical Records Classification with BERT and Domain 
Specific Corpora," Journal of the American Medical Informatics Association, 26(12), pp. 1632-1636. 
Yoo, E., Gu, B., and Rabinovich, E. 2019. "Diffusion on Social Media Platforms: A Point Process Model for Interaction among Similar Content," 
Journal of Management Information Systems, 36(4), pp. 1105-1141. 
Young, H. 2015. "The digital language divide," The Guardian, (http://labs.theguardian.com/digital-language-divide/). 
Yue, W. T., Wang, Q.-H., and Hui, K.-L. 2019. "See no evil, hear no evil? Dissecting the impact of online hacker forums," MIS Quarterly, 43(1), 
pp. 73-95. 
Zaheer, M., Guruganesh, G., Dubey, A., Ainslie, J., Alberti, C., Ontanon, S., Pham, P., Ravula, A., Wang, Q., Yang, L., and Ahmed, A. 2020. 
"Big Bird: Transformers for Longer Sequences," Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 33. 
Zellers, R., Bisk, Y., Farhadi, A., and Choi, Y. 2019. "From recognition to cognition: Visual commonsense reasoning." Proceedings of CVPR 
2019, pp. 6720-6731. 
Zhang, D., Zhou, L., Kehoe, J. L., and Kilic, I. Y. et al. 2016. "What online reviewer behaviors really matter? Effects of verbal and nonverbal 
behaviors on detection of fake online reviews," Journal of Management Information Systems, 33(2), pp. 456-481. 
Zhang, K., Bhattacharyya, S., and Ram, S. 2016. "Large-Scale Network Analysis for Online Social Brand Advertising," MIS Quarterly, 40(4), 
pp. 849-868. 
Zhang, S., Zhao, H., Wu, Y., Zhang, Z., Zhou, X., and Zhou, X. 2020. "DCMN+: Dual Co-Matching Network for Multi-Choice Reading 
Comprehension," Proceedings of AAAI 2020, 34(5), pp. 9563-9570. 
Zhang, W, and Ram, S. 2020. "A Comprehensive Analysis of Triggers and Risk Factors for Asthma Based on Machine Learning and Large 
Heterogeneous Data Sources," MIS Quarterly, 44(1), pp. 305-339. 
Zhong, P., Wang, D., and Miao, C. 2019. "Knowledge-enriched transformer for emotion detection in textual conversations." Proceedings of 
EMNLP 2019, pp. 165-176. 
Zhou, S, Qiao, Z., Du, Q., Wang, G.A., Fan, W. and Yan, X. 2018. “Measuring Customer Agility From Online Reviews Using Big Data Text 
Analytics.” Journal of Management Information Systems, 35(2), pp. 510-539. 
Zhu, J., Wang, Q., Wang, Y., Zhou, Y., Zhang, J., Wang, S., and Zong, C. 2019. "NCLS: Neural Cross-Lingual Summarization," Proceedings 
of EMNLP 2019, pp. 3054-3064. 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
A  APPENDIX OF EXTENDED LITERATURE REVIEW TABLES 
Tables A1-A3 depict summaries and recommendations for each item in the IS literature review. 
 
Table A1. Information Systems Research Survey Summaries and Recommendations 
Study 
Summary 
Recommendations (e.g., future work) 
Abbasi et al. 2019 
This study examines key design elements of Voice of the Customer 
(VoC) listening platforms via a novel and improved “mention model” 
that is designed for early detection of adverse events (to address 
limitations of existing work). The model is evaluated using tweets 
and other web content involving adverse events in the automotive 
and pharmaceutical industries. The entire model is built simply on 
mentions, and only utilizes text mining in combination with signal 
fusion to improve recall (SentiWordNet lexicon for sentiment 
analysis). 
Simply using DTL would likely yield marginal to modest improvement 
for the sensor fusion model. However, significant improvement could 
be realized leveraging the gains offered by TLMs over the supervised 
and unsupervised machine learning methods that are used for 
studies cited in the review of methods. Because this is effectively a 
predictive model, it is possible that with a labeled training dataset the 
creation of a strong model for this task using TLM fine-tuning could 
become very easy to develop. In general, VoC listening seems like a 
research topic ripe for the application of TLMs in future work. 
Adamopoulos et al. 2018 
This study uses machine learning, including several text mining 
techniques, to determine whether personality characteristics of social 
media users accentuate or attenuate the effectiveness of word of 
mouth in shaping consumers’ preferences and behavior. The model 
uses latent Dirichlet allocation (LDA) for topic modeling and for 
generating a single feature for each topic as well as a commercial 
deep learning sentiment analysis package.  
As the model relies heavily on traditional text mining techniques, and 
only uses an unknown deep learning technique for sentiment 
analysis, the overall gains the model could see from incorporating 
DTL would likely be moderate to significant. However, the amount of 
benefit is difficult to estimate given that LDA may not see more than 
moderate improvement and the deep learning technique used for 
sentiment analysis is unknown. Alternately, CWRs could be a better 
option for feature extraction.  
Blohm et al. 2016 
This study explores differences in behavioral decision making as a 
result of IT-based support of open idea evaluation through a 
randomized experiment. Text mining is used to evaluate readability 
(through computation of frequency-based metrics of readability) in 
order to assess understandability as one variable in their model. 
This study uses text mining in a minimal and unique manner. Thus, it 
is unlikely that there would be much improvement to the overall 
model if DTL or CWRs were used. (Readability is not a topic for 
which the latest techniques have been demonstrated, so we may 
underestimate the potential for improvement. It is possible that a 
methodological contribution could come from the development of a 
measure of readability using TLMs or CWRs.) 
Chen et al. 2020 
This study uses a text analytics approach to extract network features 
from news for better understanding market signaling via dynamic firm 
relations. Specifically, text mining is used to extract dynamic firm 
networks from news via steps involving event extraction, argument 
separation and sentiment analysis. The results suggest new 
research directions for financial text mining and new insights into 
investors' perceptions of news. 
The study describes existing text mining technologies as being 
severely limited with respect to being able to understand the 
semantics of the inter-firm relationships that the study focuses on. 
For this reason, and because the authors underscore the value of 
financial news for market signaling and other applications, we feel 
that there is the potential for significant improvement using either 
CWRs or DTL. (Krauss & Feuerriegel [2017] demonstrate the value 
of DTL, without utilizing TLMs or CWRs, for directly predicting firms’ 
market movements, suggesting that significant gains are possible 
with greater ease due to substantially less model complexity.) 
Chen et al. 2019 
This study assesses the magnitude of direct and indirect effects of 
managerial responses to online customer reviews. The study utilizes 
a difference-in-difference-in-differences approach and uses text 
mining to extract sentiment from reviews for use as a model feature. 
This is done with an n-gram language model and LingPipe software. 
Because the study utilizes sentiment analysis as one component of 
its model, significant improvement cannot be expected with the use 
of DTL. However, its use could still be of marginal to moderate 
benefit. Because a commercial sentiment package is utilized, it is 
difficult to estimate any performance gains.  

2 
Chung et al. 2020 
This study evaluates the impact of firm social media messaging on 
firm performance (specifically on market returns). The study tests 
hypotheses regarding the impact on returns of firms' social media 
responses to positive and negative customer messages. It uses text 
mining for sentiment analysis so that sentiment scores could be used 
as features for customer comments, other social media content, 
blogs and news. Open Hangul, a foreign sentiment analysis 
package, was used for analysis. 
Because this study uses sentiment analysis as a primary component 
in its model, the technique is very important. However, as the data 
involved firms' messages from three languages, this is not as 
straightforward as simply applying deep transfer learning or CWRs. 
Yet, this is a great example for how multilingual TLMs can be applied 
- due to the three languages different sentiment analysis techniques 
were required, but a single multilingual model could strengthen the 
model by ensuring that the sentiment values were learned from 
different languages and generated from the same semantic space. 
Heimback & Hinz 
2018 
This experimental study evaluates how design aspects of online 
social networks impact online content diffusion through a controlled 
experiment. The study only uses text mining in a minor capacity via 
sentiment analysis in order to enhance the dataset by adding extra 
features. Pennebaker et al.'s [2007] LIWC dictionary was used for 
sentiment analysis. 
Because the study only uses sentiment analysis in a minor role for 
the model, and is primarily concerned with the experiment's results, it 
is unlikely that anything other than marginal benefit could come from 
the use of more advanced techniques such as DTL or CWRs. 
Hwang et al. 2019 
The study examines how the information accumulated by individuals 
in a customer support crowdsourcing community impacts their ability 
to generate novel, feasible and well-liked ideas in an innovation 
crowdsourcing community. It uses NLP to construct each individual's 
information network based on their activities in the community 
segmented by topic (using topic modeling, i.e., LDA). The results 
indicate that generalists who have contributed to a broad range of 
topics in the online community are able to generate novel ideas more 
often than nongeneralists. 
Since topic modeling is the method used in this study it is not clear 
how much benefit could be gained from using DTL or CWRs. While 
the use of these methods would likely be able to improve the results, 
the gains may be marginal at the cost of more effort (because topic 
modeling is not yet a widely used application of TLMs). However, 
advanced models that use CWRs for feature extraction stand to offer 
more substantive gains which may justify the effort. Regardless, it is 
unlikely that any changes would significantly impact the results of the 
study. 
Khern-am-naui et al. 2018 
This study explores the implications of monetary incentives for 
reviews through a natural experiment that compared a review 
platform offering monetary incentives to reviews from Amazon. The 
study employs a variety of text mining techniques including a GF 
index (a metric computed via frequency analysis) for readability, 
sentiment analysis (used Harvard General Inquirer lexicon) and topic 
modeling (via LDA). These techniques all generated features to use 
with a difference-in-differences model. 
Because text features are so prominent in the model used here, we 
feel that TLMs and CWRs are strong candidates for improving the 
quality of the model, especially due to biases introduced by 
uncertainty in feature extraction techniques [Yang 2018]. Again, we 
are not aware of TLMs being used for quantifying readability, but, as 
this appears to have substantial value to IS researchers, it may be 
that a methodological contribution developed from TLMs is useful to 
researchers and practitioners. We feel that since multiple features 
are extracted using text mining, the impact of using TLMs or CWRs 
would be significant, although it may not impact the results. 
Lappas et al. 2016 
This study explores the detection of fake reviews on online platforms 
with respect to the vulnerability of firms to fake review attacks. To 
these ends the study focuses on the visibility of a business to the 
customer base as a function of the features that a business can 
cover and its position in the platform's ranking system. The authors 
employ a lexicon-based sentiment analysis aggregated at the hotel 
level as features for their model. 
This work relies heavily on sentiment analysis, thus the method is 
quite relevant. In the past lexicon-based techniques have worked 
well for domain-specific sentiment analysis tasks because semantic 
distributions shift dramatically between different domains and often 
outperformed even alternative methods trained on domain-specific 
data. However, DTL using TLMs will outperform even these lexicon 
based methods with a reasonable training dataset. Performance 
gains may not be dramatic for models such as a pretrained BERT, 
but with larger datasets domain-specific pretraining could enable 
stronger models with fine-tuning from small datasets. Few-shot 
learning models could also be expected to do well. 
Lee et al. 2020  
This study introduces cross-promotion - advertising one mobile app 
in another mobile app - as a new means for advertising apps. The 
authors create a novel app similarity measure by using LDA on apps' 
production descriptions, and then analyze how the similarity between 
the source app and the target app influences users' app downloads. 
The dataset is unique, and comes from a major mobile app provider 
in South Korea. They further propose a predictive machine learning 
app-matching system. 
In this study, LDA was selected for topic modeling rather than a word 
representation model because of its wide acceptance in research 
contexts and because it was more interpretable. While there may be 
some truth to these claims, the performance benefits from CWRs 
likely outweigh each, especially considering that interpretation of text 
clustering is significantly easier than interpretation of high 
dimensional clusters of numeric data. Consequently, we feel that 
research like this would benefit from the use of TLM-based methods. 

3 
Liu et al. 2020 
This study proposes a novel text analytic framework developed using 
design science for extracting important features from online 
collaborative forums and applying them to classify the usefulness of 
a solution. A kernel theory of the knowledge adoption model is used 
to capture a rich set of features for predicting information usefulness. 
n-gram vectorization was used with a variety of other techniques, 
such as topic modeling, to extract features for the classification 
model (several ML methods were used for the classification). (See 
Figure 3 in paper). 
Since feature extraction plays such a big role in this study, it is likely 
that CWRs and TLMs would significantly boost performance. 
Because this is a predictive model, performance gains are more 
significant than for models that are used for statistical analysis. Thus, 
we feel that this study is a good example of one in which TLM-based 
methods would be very useful. This model is also a good candidate 
for using higher dimensional latent feature vectors, particularly 
because SVMs are used as the classifier and are well-suited for large 
feature spaces when there is sufficient data. We feel that using 
contextual word representations in this manner could dramatically 
improve predictive ability. 
Liu et al. 2020 (forthcoming) 
This study conducts an interfirm labor market competitor analysis 
with a longitudinal dataset derived from online profiles and matched 
by employer-employee to extract global information about interfirm 
human capital competition. Using employee transfer between firms 
they derive and analyze a human capital flow network. LDA is used 
for extracting a feature based on six topics. Other features are 
created by computing cosine similarity between descriptions (e.g. 
documents) using a technique similar to TF-IDF for vectorization. 
These features are then used as inputs for a variety of machine 
learning predictive models.  
We anticipate that substantial improvement on these techniques is 
possible if DTL was used for the similarity feature extraction as 
opposed to simply using the TF-IDF derived technique. Due to the 
significance of context, and its strength relative to frequency-based 
methods, we are particularly interested in how significant 
improvement could be from their use, particularly because this is a 
predictive model where improved performance is the objective. 
Moreover, it is likely that other features could be extracted using 
CWRs, and that feature extraction via topic modeling could be 
enhanced to improve performance through their use. 
Mejia et al. 2019 
This study attempts to use information from online reviews to gauge 
restaurant hygiene. To these ends the study constructs a social 
media hygiene (SMASH) dictionary from the online reviews drawing 
on previous work utilizing sentiment and opinion mining. Mturk was 
used to classify each review based on whether it "indicates problems 
related to hygiene." This resulted in 1,191 training documents. 1-
grams, 2-grams and 3-grams were included in the dictionary, which 
was generated using word frequency. 
Because this study uses machine learning to generate a dictionary 
which is then used for analysis, it is likely that the unique training 
dataset used could be effectively used to fine-tune a pretrained TLM 
to achieve strong performance for the task of evaluating restaurant 
hygiene through sentiment/opinion analysis. An even stronger model 
could certainly be created by pretraining a TLM on a domain-specific 
dataset of restaurant reviews in an unsupervised fashion, and then 
fine-tuning with the crowd-generated labeled dataset. We also think 
that few-shot learning models could perform well on this task, 
although how well is unclear and they may need more than single 
digit numbers of examples. 
Mousavi & Gu 2019 
This study assessed the impact of US Representatives' Twitter 
adoption on their voting orientations in the US Congress, specifically, 
whether or not their adoption of Twitter makes them vote more in line 
with their constituents. Sentiment was used as a feature for the 
model by averaging four separate sentiment scores on Twitter data. 
Marginal gains may be realized by using DTL to fine-tune a 
pretrained TLM on Twitter data. Perhaps even more significant gains 
could come from using a domain-specific pretrained TLM for fine-
tuning further with a labeled dataset. This latter technique seems 
particularly well suited for Twitter data due to the syntactic 
irregularities as well as the language used. It could further be 
possible to encode emojis in text and pretrain a TLM which had 
tokenized them for social media data where they are widely used in 
ways that may lead to poor performance with existing techniques. 
However, in this particular study these techniques are unlikely to 
improve the results as sentiment is just one feature. 
Mousavi et al. 2020 
This study strives to identify an optimal strategy for managing 
customer sentiment social media and to identify factors influencing 
the effectiveness of managing customer sentiment in this manner. 
Consequently, sentiment analysis is used to generate a sentiment 
score for each Tweet via the lexicon-based R package SentimentR 
and the resulting sentiment scores were then normalized. This was 
then used as a primary feature for the model. 
As with the Mousavi and Gu [2019] study, this study involved 
sentiment analysis of Twitter data. However, unlike the study above, 
sentiment was the primary feature for the model. Thus, this study 
stands to gain more from the use of DTL for improving the quality of 
sentiment analysis. While existing sentiment analysis techniques 
may perform better for many narrow domains, the use of TLMs 
pretrained on domain-specific datasets offers an avenue for 
improving upon the standard techniques used for IS research. Thus, 
work on methodological contributions along these lines would be 
welcome as it would stand to improve the quality of insights from 
research such as this which relies heavily on sentiment analysis. 

4 
Pan et al. 2019 
This study develops and validates a measure of threats posed by the 
entry of new startups in the IT industry using text mining to analyze 
10-K filings. The authors create a novel measure of new entry 
threats that builds on TF-IDF vectorization and the cosine similarity 
measure. 
This is another case that stands to benefit significantly from the use 
of TLMs. Rather than computing document similarity, DTL with TLMs 
can be used to perform extractive or abstractive summarization 
followed by single sentence similarity analysis, which TLMs perform 
quite well at based on their performance on these tasks in GLUE 
[Wang 2018]. Applying similar techniques in such a manner would be 
challenging but could lead to a superior novel measure for evaluating 
new entry threats. Again, like many applications discussed here, 
pretraining a TLM on a domain-specific corpus and then fine-tuning 
on a labeled dataset would have a significant positive impact on 
performance. 
Song et al. 2019 
This study involves the development of a prediction model for box 
office revenue based on user-generated content and marketer-
generated content from a popular Chinese microblogging service. 
The authors use a small portion of the dataset to label for training a 
sentiment classifier and they use a Chinese word segmentation 
repository for extracting features. A sentiment feature and the latent 
extracted features are fed to an SVM classifier which is then used as 
the sentiment. 
Because the sentiment analysis used in this study has been labeled 
for training a sentiment model, it is a good candidate for applying 
DTL. Furthermore, because the content is all Chinese, it is a good 
candidate for use with a multilingual TLM or a TLM pretrained in 
Chinese. Due to the power of TLMs as predictive models and 
classifiers, it would be interesting to evaluate the performance 
differences that result from 1) using CWRs and deep transfer 
learning for feature extraction and use with an SVM and 2) training 
the model directly to predict box office revenue. This is a unique 
foreign language model and it would be interesting to explore the 
gains via either method. 
Wang et al. 2018 
This study uses a combination of image processing, text mining and 
network analytics in a novel method to identify apps as original or 
copycat. For the text component LSA is used for feature generation 
and used for clustering to create a predictive model. The results are 
used in an econometric model to evaluate the impact of copycat 
apps on demand for the original apps. 
Given the importance of feature extraction in this predictive model, it 
is likely that improvements can be realized by utilizing CWRs. 
However, it is more difficult to anticipate the significance of such 
gains for this model since it uses such a diverse range of machine 
learning techniques in combination. Thus, while we feel that the 
model would benefit from using TLM-based methods, we also feel 
that it may not benefit as much as other models discussed here. 
Yang et al. 2018 
This study examines the nature of bias in models that use machine 
learning for extracting features to input into analytical models. This 
bias arises from measurement error or from the misclassification of 
variables. For one of the examples, the authors trained a text 
classifier on online reviews and for another example they trained a 
text classifier on social media posts. A third example involved a more 
traditional dataset involving structured numerical data. The results 
have interesting implications for future work utilizing machine 
learning techniques for feature extraction, and suggest that the best 
results will be achieved by coupling the best performing techniques 
with error-correction methods. 
This study is particularly relevant to the present study as it explores 
the significance of error propagation from methods used for feature 
extraction to the analytical model. We feel strongly that the bias 
identified in the two text mining examples demonstrated here could 
be mitigated substantially by the use of DTL and CWRs. Moreover, 
we feel that this article demonstrates one of the significant reasons 
for adopting the use of these methods more widely in IS research.  
 
Table A2: The Journal of MIS Survey Summaries and Recommendations 
Study 
Summary 
Recommendations (e.g., future work) 
Chen et al. 2019 
This study addresses how consumer-to-consumer online health 
community users are affected by the relationships established in the 
communities and how the content exchanged between users impacts 
their health knowledge and attitudes. The study examines these 
questions using a computational multi-method framework that 
combines NLP, machine learning, social network analysis and 
econometric modeling to a panel dataset collected from nine 
separate discussion boards. The authors used POS tagging and 
LDA as features for an SVM classifier to sort posts. They then used 
SentiStrength to extract sentiment features from community posts 
(scaled -5 to 5) for input into an econometric model. 
This study utilizes a range of text mining/NLP techniques, so it is 
reasonable to assume that due to its reliance on semantic 
information contained in the dataset significant benefits could be 
gained from using TLMs and CWRs. However, building a model 
which uses these more advanced techniques to provide improved 
performance and more refined insights would be non-trivial. While 
gains could be expected from fine-tuning some of the feature 
extraction techniques on labeled datasets, the value added may not 
be significant enough to impact the results. 

5 
Dong et al. 2018 
This study utilizes social media data for fraud detection (as opposed 
to financial statements or financial data). The authors propose a 
framework, grounded in systemic functional linguistics theory, and a 
matched dataset of 64 fraudulent and 64 nonfraudulent firms to 
predict fraud. The framework extracts text-based features via 
sentiment analysis, emotion analysis, lexical features and topic 
modeling for input into an SVM classifier. The sentiment analysis is 
performed using a sentiment dictionary for financial applications, the 
emotions are taken from the LIWC dictionary, the lexical features are 
extracted via TF-IDF and LDA is used for feature extraction via topic 
modeling. Network-based features are also extracted. 
This is another text-based model that uses a multi-method framework 
to build a predictive model. Because the model is intended to predict 
fraud detection directly, it could be used to train directly on the 
documents in the corpus to predict fraud. However, this is unlikely to 
be effective because the strength of indicators of fraud in social 
media data is likely to vary substantially. It is possible some novel 
technique could be used to leverage TLM fine-tuning directly, 
although a possible technique for this is not apparent to us. However, 
we feel that it is unlikely that CWRs could not add value due to their 
superior ability to capture latent semantic features of language, but 
this still may not significantly affect the results. 
Ghiassi et al. 2016 
This study focuses on the development of a novel sentiment analysis 
method for brand related Twitter data. The technique involves 
targeted sentiment analysis using supervised feature engineering 
combined with a dynamic neural network architecture. The technique 
is evaluated for both three-class and five-class sentiment 
classification and outperforms two state-of-the-art (SOTA) Twitter 
sentiment analysis systems. 
We expect that fine-tuning using the two brand-related Twitter 
datasets would be able to outperform this technique. Because this is 
a strong model, the size of the TLM and the pretraining data would 
likely make a difference in whether or not a model could outperform 
the model from this study. For example, RoBERTa and T5 11B may 
be able to outperform this model with generic pretrained data, while 
BERT may not be able to outperform this model or may only do so 
when pretrained on Twitter data. It is possible our suspicions are 
incorrect, but we are confident that performance could be improved 
using a complex ensemble technique like Naseem et al. [2020].  
Huang et al. 2017 
This study explores the impact of online comments from a variety of 
sources and platforms on a film's box office performance over time. 
The authors used text mining/sentiment analysis on over 1,500 
expert and consumer reviews for films released over an entire year. 
A naive Bayes sentiment model was trained by vectorizing 
documents and using assigned numerical review ratings as the 
target (the training data was randomly sampled from the parent 
dataset). 
This may be one of the studies which stands to benefit most from 
using either TLMs or CWRs. It is such a good candidate because it 
has a unique topic-specific dataset which can be used for training, 
and it uses a very traditional technique for training the model that 
was originally used. A language model could be operationalized by 
either training TLMs directly for the task of sentiment analysis or by 
using TLMs and CWRs to create contextual document vectors that 
can then be used as features for training a sentiment model, e.g., 
[Adhikari 2019]. Because sentiment is so critical to this model, the 
results stand to be impacted significantly. 
Kumar et al. 2019 
This study focuses on the detection of fake online reviews due to the 
significant role they play in consumers' online purchasing decisions. 
The authors propose an entirely unsupervised, novel, hierarchical 
approach that involves deriving key feature distributions 
characterizing reviewers' behavior and using the combined 
distributions in a finite mixture model for anomaly detection (i.e. fake 
reviewers). Only frequency-based text mining is used in this study 
(i.e., word count).  
Certainly, TLMs could be fine-tuned to recognize fake reviews, 
although the quality of the results may not be strong. However, it is 
likely that generative language models will be used in the future to 
create fake reviews, and TLMs should be able to perform well at 
detecting text generated from other TLMs. It is possible that CWRs or 
TLMs could be used to generate novel frameworks which could 
outperform this model, but how to do this is not clear or 
straightforward to us. This is an interesting topic for future research, 
but it is likely that this is one of the few studies in this review that 
would not benefit even marginally from the new techniques. 
Li et al. 2016 
This study presents the AZSecure text mining system for identifying 
and profiling key underground economy sellers of credit/debit cards 
in order to protect consumers from cybercrime. The system uses 
machine translation for preprocessing foreign language data and 
uses both sentiment analysis and topic modeling (LDA) for feature 
extraction. The resulting features are used for training a max entropy 
classifier. 
Because we do not have good knowledge of the data used we are 
unable to say whether or not we feel that a TLM could be fine-tuned 
to directly classify either malware or stolen data advertisements, 
although it would be possible if there were strong signals of 
criminality in each advertisement. Regardless, this, as with most 
models in this literature review, could utilize the strong semantic 
features that are captured with CWRs and leverage them to improve 
performance. Also, due to the multilingual nature of the data, we are 
confident that errors exist from the machine translation and that this 
element could be improved with multilingual TLMs. 

6 
Mai et al. 2018 
This study explores the determinants of Bitcoin's valuation by 
exploring the dynamic interactions between social media and 
valuation using text mining and vector error correction models. Social 
media data collected from a Bitcoin discussion board and Twitter 
was analyzed using sentiment analysis (using a financial sentiment 
dictionary; news data was also included) and coupled with Bitcoin 
pricing data. Features were used that were computed as the number 
of positive and negative posts/Tweets. These were combined with 
other features like market value, commodity value, investor 
sentiment, news sentiment, etc. for input into a model. 
This study stands to potentially gain moderately to significantly 
because sentiment analysis plays such a big role in the study, and 
the research deals with text data from two unique contexts. It is 
unlikely that the financial sentiment dictionary used was optimal for 
either the Bitcoin community posts or the Bitcoin hashtag Tweets. 
Due to the unique contexts, models trained on crowd labeled data 
from these data sources could likely improve performance which 
would have a direct impact on the results of the study. Large 
language models like GPT-3 have shown strong performance on 
Twitter sentiment analysis. Moreover, it would be interesting to 
extend this study to assess other cultures' sentiment due to the 
Global nature of Bitcoin using multilingual TLMs. 
Saifee et al. 2019 
 This study was intended to explore questions regarding the 
relationships between adherence to clinical guidelines and the use of 
electronic health records, and physicians' online reputations. Data 
was obtained from multiple sources and the main dependent 
variables were constructed from the physicians' online reviews: 
sentiment scores and overall rating (from the reviews; seven different 
dimensions). Sentiment analysis was conducted using the 
SentimentR package in R which uses an unspecified generic 
sentiment analysis method that uses a context window for identifying 
valence shifters. 
Because sentiment is one of the primary dependent variables in this 
study, it is likely that the results could be impacted by improving the 
quality of sentiment analysis. While the method used is robust for a 
wide variety of tasks, it is not specialized for the specific task. Using 
crowd sourcing to label the sentiment of different posts (perhaps n = 
10,000) for training a sentiment model, likely as part of a multitask 
TLM (including multiple sentiment tasks), could be expected to 
improve performance of the sentiment analysis module. Whether this 
would have a significant effect on the results and the quality of the 
insights gained from the study is unclear, however, and it is possible 
that there may be no broader gains.  
Samtani et al. 2017 
This study examines a novel framework for cyber threat intelligence 
intended to provide proactive advice for better understanding the 
present threats in hacker communities. The authors utilize a 
multimethod approach that leverages a variety of techniques to 
incorporate a range of relevant data, including posts from hacker 
community forums, as part of the complex cyber threat intelligence 
system. LDA is applied to attachment and tutorial posts for feature 
extraction. 
This study is very interesting when considering future directions for 
TLM and CWRs in IS research. For example, the hacker community 
is a global community, which includes large communities using 
different languages. Thus, cross-cultural exploration of this 
community through multilingual TLMs could improve work like this 
and lead to better insights. Separately, TLMs have been 
demonstrated to be effective at generating or correcting source code 
for some programming languages. However, source code generation 
isn't necessary for applications like this where latent feature 
extraction from source code can be used as valuable features for a 
model. 
Shi. et al. 2017 
This study involves a novel data mining approach to risk factor 
identification and analysis in safety management systems using data 
from the Aviation Safety Reporting System (i.e., FAA). The new 
technique is intended to overcome challenges of missing data and 
labor-intensive manual analysis of risk factors. LSA/SVD was used 
for topic modeling/feature extraction to create features to use as 
inputs for training classifiers (naive Bayes, decision trees and 
boosting). 
This study is interesting because it offers a good opportunity to build 
an end-to-end classifier by only fine-tuning a TLM. Because incidents 
of different classes are likely to have significant semantic differences, 
it is likely that a TLM developed from simply fine-tuning on labeled 
incidents would be able to offer good performance. We suspect that 
with a large enough TLM (e.g., T5 or GPT-3) performance would be 
significantly better than this study, and all without significant effort in 
model development. So, this is an example that stands to benefit 
greatly from the new techniques. We further suspect few-shot 
performance from GPT-3 or other large language models would be 
beneficial for this task and may lead to state-of-the-art results with 
minimal effort. 
Siering et al. 2016 
This study demonstrates a novel technique for detecting deception 
and fraud in crowdsourcing platforms by analyzing a sample of 
fraudulent and nonfraudulent proposals posted on a leading 
crowdfunding platform. The multimethod framework involves 
assessing 1) content-based cues via a bag-of-words approach by 
creating document vectors through TF-IDF and 2) linguistic cues 
through category-based measures by using the General Inquirer 
dictionary. Numerous machine learning classifiers are used including 
SVMs, naive Bayes, k-nearest neighbors, decision trees and all of 
these together in ensembles.  
This is another case that is difficult to project the true value of the 
new techniques because the semantic content of the dataset is not 
clear. If there are clear and strong signals of deception and fraud 
then an end-to-end classifier could be trained, although this is 
unlikely. What is more likely is that complex systems involving TLMs 
or CWRs can be designed that are able to improve upon the 
performance of the model from this study. Regardless, because this 
is a predictive model the performance is important and some 
combination of TLMs or CWRs will be able to significantly increase 
predictive ability on this task, albeit doing so may be nontrivial and 
may require substantial expertise and experience with NLP and 
TLMs. 

7 
Van Osch et al. 2018 
This study explores the ways in which enterprise social media 
visibility is used strategically and its implications for cross-boundary 
knowledge sharing by examining three types of boundary-spanning 
interactions. A machine learning model was used to generate 
measures for each of these three dependent variables using log and 
content data from enterprise social media-based workgroups. The 
first step involved labeling text data for training an SVM for text 
classification. Network features were used as independent variables 
for the statistical model. 
For text classification, it is likely that performance gains could be 
realized because the documents in question are of relatively short 
token lengths. It is uncertain whether basic models such as BERT 
could be trained to improve upon the results from this study, but it is 
highly likely that by simply fine-tuning on the labeled dataset used in 
the study, likely in a multitask framework, performance could be 
improved with models designed for deep transfer learning such as 
T5. CWRs could likely also be a solid avenue for improving 
classification. Because the text classification was used for the 
dependent variables, the impact on the results could potentially be 
significant. 
Velichety et al. 2019 
This study involves the development of a process for identifying 
features for quality assessment in large dataset and a method to 
assess peer-produced content quality in knowledge repositories, i.e., 
Wikipedia, using a design science framework. Sentiment analysis 
(using a dictionary) and topic modeling (using LDA) were used to 
extract text-based features and were combined with a variety of 
metadata features specific to the dataset and network features that 
were used as inputs to the statistical model. The paper also involved 
Hadoop because it used such a large amount of data. 
Despite this study using so many different elements in the novel 
framework, new techniques such as TLMs or CWRs still stand to 
offer substantive improvements due to the importance of the features 
for which sentiment analysis and topic modeling are used to create. 
Because the dataset is general and not domain specific, pretrained 
TLMs, such as XLNet [Yang 2019], already achieve SOTA 
performance on sentiment analysis. It may not produce results of the 
same fidelity, but it would be interesting to fine-tune a large TLM 
directly on Wikipedia content to predict the quality of articles. By 
using this prediction with other features, SOTA performance is likely. 
Wang et al. 2020 
This work involves a novel text mining technique for end-to-end 
extraction of semantic features for soft information contained in 
descriptive loan texts submitted by borrowers. The technique creates 
representations in a latent feature space and clusters related terms, 
labeling the clusters based on their semantic soft factor 
characteristics. The clusters, called semantic cliques, are created 
using a novel algorithm. Evaluation shows that the soft factor 
clusters act as features in a predictive model to significantly improve 
credit risk evaluation. 
Because this uses word representations directly, without having to 
generate document vectors/representations, it is a great candidate 
for using CWRs. Simply using these alternative representations in 
the current model would almost certainly improve predictive 
performance due to the valuable semantics of context that are 
encoded in CWRs. Similar to other studies, it would be interesting to 
fine-tune a large TLM directly on the descriptive loan texts to predict 
the risk of default. This problem differs from some other problems 
discussed in this review, and we feel it has greater potential via this 
approach. 
Yoo et al. 2019 
This study evaluates the propagation of user-generated content in 
social networks, and how diffusion for content is impacted by the 
diffusion of similar content. The analysis involves a notion of 
information cascades and parallel cascades that were first used to 
investigate rumor propagation in Twitter via retweets. To these ends, 
the authors use Twitter data concerning natural disasters requiring 
aid from humanitarian organizations. Text mining via the SimHash 
algorithm was used to determine similarity between Tweets in 
parallel cascades that contained similar information. 
We are not knowledgeable about the use of cascades for analysis of 
the diffusion of user content in Twitter data, but BERT has been used 
to create document vectors which have outperformed SimHash for 
tasks related to the deduplication of scholarly documents [Gyawali 
2020]. Thus, we are confident that TLMs could be used to generate 
CWRs for aggregation into document representations that could 
outperform the similarity measurement technique applied here. 
Because Twitter data is involved, a TLM pretrained on Twitter data 
may perform best. Due to the role of parallel cascade in this 
research, the impact could be substantive. 
Zhang et al. 2016 
This study also concerns the issue of fake online reviews, but it was 
intended to compare the significance of nonverbal behavioral 
features and verbal behavioral features in predictive models for 
identifying fake reviews. The study uses text mining for extracting all 
frequency-based features from documents to use as inputs for an 
SVM classifier. They find that the inclusion of nonverbal features into 
models can improve performance of fake review detection systems. 
Because the text mining techniques used here are all for feature 
extraction and are all frequency based, it is likely that the rich 
semantic information captured in CWRs could be leveraged to 
substantially improve fake review detection using all verbal features, 
though combined methods would probably still perform best. It would 
also be interesting to train the model directly to predict fake reviews, 
similar to other cases. While it is likely combined methods will be 
optimal for the near-term, it is possible that continued scaling of 
TLMs could lead to superior performance at some point. 
Zhou et al. 2018 
This study considers the impact of product reviews from the 
perspective of product developers through a big data approach that 
analyzes product review notes and a mobile app dataset comprised 
of over three million reviews. The authors use TF-IDF in an SVD-
based semantic similarity method to quantify customer agility. This 
similarity measure marginally outperforms Word2Vec (GloVe, which 
would seem the more appropriate word representation comparison 
given the use of SVDs, was not shown).  
Because the technique only marginally outperforms more rudiment 
word representations, we are very confident that CWRs could be 
used to improve performance of this model, and, consequently, have 
significant implications for the results and insights gleaned from this 
study. Using CWRs in this way is one manner that can be used to 
evaluate the research questions of concern here, but alternate ways 
may also be possible with TLM fine-tuning or different uses of CWRs. 

8 
 
Table A3: MIS Quarterly Survey Summaries and Recommendations 
Study 
Summary 
Recommendations (e.g., future work) 
Abbasi et al. 2018 
Using design science, this study proposes a language-action 
perspective (LAP) text analytics framework to support sense-making 
in online discourse. The proposed framework has three 
components: 1. conversation disentanglement 2. coherence analysis 
and 3. message speech act classification. The system uses 
numerous forms of classification to extract different 
system/linguistic/conversational structure features in order to feed 
into a "speech act theory (SAT)" tree for classification. 
The proposed model is heavily grounded in theory, and 
consequently has a large number of components. Thus, it is hard to 
describe specifically how TLMs or CWRs could be used to improve 
this model, and it is also difficult to determine how much 
improvement the framework would see if using some of these 
advanced techniques. However, we feel that CWRs could certainly 
be used for some portions of this model, e.g., semantic features 
could be extracted rather than just linguistic features. This example 
might not make a significant difference, but we feel that this could at 
least modestly improve the model. 
Arazy et al. 2020 
This study concerns peer-produced digital artifacts from online 
communities and analyzes the evolution of wiki articles to assess 
the evolution of the artifacts over time. The study uses the ORES 
algorithm for extracting a feature estimating the quality of each wiki 
article. This and other features were used in regression models. 
This article can clearly be improved by TLMs and CWRs as the 
authors explicitly suggest that the feature space could be 
represented more sophisticatedly using text analytics techniques and 
more advanced knowledge representations. They further suggest 
that the patterns observed in this study are a lower bound. Thus, we 
recommend using the more powerful methods that are the focus of 
this study to improve this framework in future work. 
Bapna et al. 2019 
This study explores how firms can nurture online brand communities 
in social media that can bring value to firms. The authors used 
manual coders to extract features from posts via Mturk and also 
used LDA to identify the types of posts that were used by firms 
which might not be associated with engagement. The extracted 
features were used as input for the analytical model. 
The coding done in this study by Mturk workers is superior to 
anything that TLMs or CWRs can currently provide. However, using 
crowd workers does not scale to big data and is only effective on 
modestly sized datasets unless the research team is very well 
funded. Thus, we do not expect significant improvements to the 
results of this study to be likely, although marginal to modest 
improvements may be realized from using CWRs instead of LDA. 
Benjamin et al. 2019 
This study offers a framework for guiding scholars in Darknet 
research so that they may contribute to the body of literature: 
Darknet Identification, Collection, Evaluation, with-Ethics (DICE-E). 
Data found in the darknet is largely comparable to that found in 
more traditional forums such as social media and includes a lot of 
text content. However, while they suggest the use of a range of text 
mining techniques for content analysis, their example only uses 
parsing and no other text mining techniques. 
The text mining techniques used in this are not very complex, but 
TLMs and CWRs do stand to benefit this research significantly. 
Because the Darknet is a global network and features actors from 
numerous countries, it seems logical that multilingual TLMs would be 
useful. In general, all of the methods suggested for content analysis 
could likely be improved with the new techniques, and especially so 
with multilingual models. This presents a good opportunity for future 
work for those interested in exploring Darknet research. 
Chau et al. 2020 
This study focuses on identifying emotionally distressed people 
through their social media posts. Design science is used to develop 
a new system for identifying and classifying content from distressed 
individuals. Due to the nature of the relevant content, the approach 
heavily uses sentiment and affect analysis (lexicon-based). Two 
classifiers are combined in an ensemble - one an ML classifier and 
the other a rule-based classifier. The ML classifier utilizes feature 
extraction and an SVM classifier. 
Because this is primarily a text analytics model utilizing more 
traditional techniques, it has substantial potential for improvement by 
adopting TLMs and CWRs. As it relies heavily on sentiment analysis 
and affect analysis, there are several options that could be used for 
improving performance. One would be to simply use a pretrained 
and already fine-tuned sentiment TLM that already achieves SOTA 
performance such as those available in Hugging Face's transformers 
library [Wolf 2019]. Alternately, due to the nature of this problem and 
the impact of accuracy, a crowd labeled emotion dataset could be 
trained via a large TLM. 
Deng et al. 2018 
This study shows that the effect of microblog sentiment on stock 
returns is both statistically and economically significant at the hour 
level. It uses sentiment analysis and an autoregressive model for a 
very large dataset of StockTwits messages (~18M tweets identified 
by a cashtag, i.e., "$") that spanned four years. The sentiment 
analysis used is SentiStrength and a vector autoregression model 
was used for the time series analysis. 
This study is focused on sentiment analysis as it explores the impact 
of sentiment on stock trading. Due to this, similar to the Chau et al. 
2020, the work has substantial potential to see improvement from 
the adoption of TLMs and CWRs. Again, similar to the previous 
study, already fine-tuned sentiment models could be used, or, even 
better, a crowd labeled StockTwits dataset could be created and 
used to fine-tune a large TLM. We feel that the latter would greatly 
benefit the results and is a good direction for future research. 

9 
Gong et al. 2017 
This study proposes an automatic way of examining keyword 
ambiguity based on probabilistic topic models in order to explore its 
effect on search advertising performance. The authors utilize a 
hierarchical Bayesian approach considering topic-specific effects 
and nonlinear position effects for modeling click-through rate and ad 
position (rank). Topic modeling via LDA is used to generate topics 
for feature extraction.  
Since LDA is simply used for feature extraction we feel that it is likely 
CWRs could be used in a straightforward manner to generate latent 
features which could be used effectively in the model to at the least 
modestly improve performance. Because search queries are very 
short and contain very strong semantic signals, it is likely that TLMs 
could be used with fine-tuning to create much stronger means of 
conducting this type of analysis. 
Huang, K.Y. et al. 2019 
The paper examines the relationships between dimensions of social 
capital and the provision of support and companionship in 
healthcare virtual support communities. A model is developed and 
tested on data from three virtual health support communities. 
Messages in the communities were manually coded and separate 
text classifiers for each group to identify whether messages were for 
support or companionship and further whether they were 
informational or emotional support. A model was developed based 
on the results of the classifiers in combination with other relevant 
independent variables. 
This is an excellent opportunity for using TLMs directly with fine-
tuning. It is ideal because the training dataset sizes are small and 
because the quality of the classification is critical to the results of the 
study. BERT would be straightforward, and could likely be used to 
improve this for free in a Google Colab demonstration notebook. 
This is also a good example for using T5 in a multitask transfer 
learning capacity because T5 could be trained simultaneously on the 
various different classification tasks involved in this study by simply 
appending a task label to be beginning of each input. 
Huang, N. et al. 2016 
This study examines two natural experiments at leading online 
review platforms and data from Facebook to assess the impact of 
social network integration. The authors use Linguistic Inquiry and 
Word Count (LIWC) to construct frequency-based measures of 
linguistic content for sentiment analysis and feature extraction. A 
panel dataset of matched restaurants is created using these 
features in a difference-in-differences model assessing the impact of 
social network integration.  
While frequently used in psychology literature and in previous IS 
research, LIWC is less than optimal given recent advances and this 
model could be improved by using TLMs in a custom implementation 
specific to the topic. However, we feel that generalizable affective 
models specific to IS or psychology research are desirable due to 
the popularity of LIWC and other models common in the IS literature. 
We also recognize that it may be non-trivial to develop a model that 
can be used across subdomains in these areas to outperform 
existing methods. Thus, we feel it in the interest of  all IS researchers 
for future work to focus on developing TLMs specific to the IS and 
psychology research domains. 
Li, J. et al. 2020 
This study uses a design science approach and proposes a 
behavioral ontology learning from text (BOLT) design framework for 
supporting researchers during the processing of behavioral 
knowledge. From this an instantiation - a search engine, TheoryOn - 
is developed that allows researchers to search directly for 
constructs, construct relationships, antecedents and consequents. 
The framework and search engine were rigorously evaluated 
through a series of data mining experiments. It uses a broad range 
of techniques, including entity extraction, text classification, word 
representations and LSTMs. 
This is one of the most advanced models, yet, as the authors state, 
"according to the BOLT framework, the performance of theoretical 
relationship extraction was heavily dependent on the accuracy of 
variable extraction," so we still feel TLMs and CWRs stand to benefit 
TheoryOn substantially. Further, future work that follows the BOLT 
framework should consider the methods presented in the current 
study for inclusion. With respect to TheoryOn, an easy but likely 
substantive improvement could be realized by simply utilizing CWRs 
as opposed to word2vec representations because the contextual 
semantic information captured in these representations is richer than 
earlier neural representations. 
Liu, X. et al. 2019 
This study proposes using an interdisciplinary lens to combine deep 
learning with themes emphasized in IS and healthcare informatics to 
examine user engagement with encoded medical info from YouTube 
videos. The authors use a Bi-LSTM to identify medical terms and 
classify videos based on how much medical information is encoded. 
They then use PCA on the video data to analyze dimensions of user 
engagement. Robustness checks were conducted with caption 
mining and image mining.  
LSTMs have had much success at tasks related to image and video 
captioning, but it appears that TLMs and CWRs are now being used 
effectively at these tasks also. Work from Qi et al. [2020] has 
demonstrated success with ImageBERT on related tasks, and Cho 
et al. [2020] have demonstrated the use of X-LXMERT for image 
captioning and visual Q&A. So, it seems that presently classification 
of videos may not be able to be improved beyond SOTA using 
TLMs, but it is likely that soon there will be TLM-based systems 
which are capable of this as well. 
Rhue & Sundararajan 2019 
This study examines how the dynamics of social commerce affect 
visibility choices of consumers' purchasing behaviors by analyzing 
data from an online "Twitter for credit card purchases." The authors 
use fixed effects and matching for the statistical model and they use 
a dictionary-based sentiment analysis for extracting a feature to use 
as input for this model. 
Since sentiment analysis is the only text mining technique used in 
this study, and because it was only used as a single feature in the 
model, we do feel that TLMs could bring modest improvement to this 
study, but we do not feel that significant gains, as for other studies, 
are possible. For sentiment analysis either pretrained models or 
domain-specific fine-tuned sentiment models could be used. 
Because this study deals with reviews for a range of products it is 
likely that the performance of pretrained models like XLNet would be 
suitable for improving overall model performance, particularly 
because a dictionary-based technique was used originally. 

10 
Shi et al. 2016 
This study involves the collection of a dataset from CrunchBase to 
evaluate proposed analytic approach for measuring firms' dyadic 
business proximity. The authors use LDA to represent a firm's 
textual description as a probability distribution over a set of 
underlying topic which are interpreted as aspects of the business. 
The "business proximity" is simply a measure of the distance 
between two firms topic distributions. 
This is a case that can likely be improved with CWRs as the novel 
model here attempts to use distributional semantics to measure 
business proximity. CWRs offer much richer probabilistic semantic 
representations of words, and thus, could likely be used in a manner 
to generate richer and more accurate representations of the aspects 
of firms' business. However, while we feel confident that gains could 
be realized in this manner it may not be straightforward due to the 
need for a novel measure that this work demonstrates, but we do 
feel that work using CWRs in this way could be valuable. 
Shin et al. 2019 
This study proposes several visual and textual social media features 
that can be used for analysis of pervasiveness of content. The 
authors then deploy deep learning and text mining to operationalize 
the new features in a scalable and systematic manner. The features 
are validated via the Mturk and two case studies from Tumblr. They 
use topic modeling, word embeddings and feature extraction for text 
in combination with convolutional neural networks for images. 
Due to the heavy reliance of representations from word2vec, the use 
of CWRs can be expected to substantially improve performance of 
this model. While this study does not utilized these more advanced 
representations, the authors do cite BERT as an example of the 
value of using rich word embeddings for cases of sparse data. We 
interpret this as a signal that soon we will begin seeing these 
methods utilized in IS research, even if they are only used by a 
minority in the beginning. Further. because this method uses both 
visual and text analytics it is likely that some of the multi-modal 
models like ImageBERT [Qi 2020] or X-LXMERT [Cho 2020] could 
also be beneficial here. 
Wu et al. 2019 
This study demonstrates a new avenue of research on how social 
theories can be operationalized in e-commerce operations by 
building on regulatory focus theory (RFT). The authors center on 
customer regulatory focus and employ a sentiment analysis 
technique dubbed "RF discovery" via a custom adaptation of the 
SentiStrength platform/application. Sentiment analysis is used for 
multiple elements of this paper and is the primary feature used in 
analysis. 
Because this study relies so heavily on sentiment analysis, it could 
benefit from the use of TLMs. The most obvious option would be to 
use pretrained models like XLNet that already perform well on 
general sentiment analysis tasks. A pretrained model could also be 
fine-tuned on a crowd-labeled dataset specific to e-commerce. Or, a 
large e-commerce dataset could be used for unsupervised 
pretraining of a domain-specific BERT (e.g., "e-CBERT") which could 
then be further fine-tuned specifically for sentiment analysis on 
different categories of reviews. An interesting alternative would be to 
train a domain-specific T5 which could then be used for multitask 
training of sentiment analysis for different product categories. 
Yue et al. 2019 
This study looks at online hacker forums to analyze the impact of 
information shared in online discussions on the frequency of DDOS 
attacks. A field dataset collected from several sources is analyzed 
using a panel fixed effects model and data regarding the DDOS 
attacks. Content analysis is conducted using two text mining 
techniques: LDA for topic modeling and tf-idf supervised 
classification. The authors found that the content analysis didn't 
have a sizable effect on the model for English language posts and 
chose not to expend the necessary resources to analyze content for 
Russian and Chinese language posts for the majority of the dataset. 
This study is interesting for two reasons. First, the text mining 
techniques used did not provide a strong enough effect to include in 
the statistical model. This is interesting because of the significance 
of errors and uncertainty in methods used for text mining feature 
generation [Yang 2018]. Thus, we feel that these newer methods 
may certainly impact the value of these features extracted from the 
posts and we think it would be very informative to learn of whether or 
not stronger methods impacted the results of the study. Second, this 
study involves multiple languages, and thus, the costs associated 
with analysis of the data in other languages could be reduced with 
multilingual TLMs, and this is a good case for exploring their use. 
Zhang et al 2016 
This paper proposes an audience selection framework for analyzing 
brand-brand networks for online brand advertising using user activity 
on social media. The authors extract and analyze brand-brand 
networks using network analytics to propose a framework combing 
text and network analytics for finding target audiences - the network 
analytics techniques are combined with sentiment analysis using a 
technique previously demonstrated to perform well for social media 
content. MapReduce is used to process big data for this study. 
This study focuses more on network analytics that text mining, so the 
impact of TLMs or CWRs on the results is likely to be marginal to 
modest at best. While this may be the case, if one were to use TLMs 
they could simply use XLNet or another strong pretrained TLM which 
performs well for sentiment. It is likely not worth the effort to develop 
more sophisticated sentiment analysis techniques using TLMs for 
cases such as this. 
Zhang & Ram 2020. 
The study introduces a data-driven framework that integrates a 
variety of machine learning techniques and performs an empirical 
analysis in order to aid in developing guidance for asthma 
management plans and interventions for specific subpopulations. A 
previous method from the authors is used for feature extraction and 
text classification to identify potential asthma patients. Sequential 
pattern mining is first used for extracting features which are 
ultimately used as inputs for the analytical model. 
The use of text mining in this study is not for a critical part of the 
study, but only for classifying potential asthma patients. 
Consequently, alternative methods with modest improvements for 
the task are unlikely to have a major impact on the results, but TLMs 
and CWRs could be used for this purpose. It is probable that the 
most straightforward way to implement these techniques would be 
by directly fine-tuning a TLM for this classification task using labeled 
training data. 

11 
 
REFERENCES 
Abbasi, A., Zhou, Y., Deng, S., and Zhang, P., 2018. “Text analytics to support sense-making in social media: A language-action 
perspective,” MIS Quarterly, 42(2), pp. 427-464. 
Abbasi, A., Li, J., Adjeroh, D., Abate, M., and Zheng, W. 2019. “Don’t Mention It? Analyzing User-Generated Content Signals for Early Adverse 
Event Warnings,” Information Systems Research, 30(3), pp.1007-1028. 
Adamopoulos, P., Ghose, A., and Todri, V. 2018. “The impact of user personality traits on word of mouth: Text-mining social media 
platforms,” Information Systems Research, 29(3), pp.612-640. 
Adhikari, A., Ram, A., Tang, R., and Lin, J. 2019. "Docbert: Bert for document classification," (arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.08398).  
Arazy, O., Lindberg, A., Rezaei, M., and Samorani, M. 2020. “The Evolutionary Trajectories of Peer-Produced Artifacts: Group Composition, 
the Trajectories’ Exploration, and the Quality of Artifacts,” MIS Quarterly, 44. 
Bapna, S., Benner, M.J., and Qiu, L. 2019. “Nurturing Online Communities: An Empirical Investigation,” MIS Quarterly, 43(2), pp. 425-452. 
Benjamin, V., Valacich, J.S., and Chen, H. 2019. “DICE-E: A Framework for Conducting Darknet Identification, Collection, Evaluation with 
Ethics,” MIS Quarterly, 43(1). 
Blohm, I., Riedl, C., Füller, J., and Leimeister, J.M. 2016. “Rate or trade? Identifying winning ideas in open idea sourcing,” Information Systems 
Research, 27(1), pp.27-48. 
Chau, M., Li, T.M., Wong, P.W., Xu, J.J., Yip, P.S. and Chen, H. 2020. "Finding People with Emotional Distress in Online Social Media: A 
Design Combining Machine Learning and Rule-Based Classification," MIS Quarterly, 44(2), pp. 933-953. 
Chen, K., Li, X., Luo, P., and Zhao, J.L. 2020. “News-Induced Dynamic Networks for Market Signaling: Understanding Impact of News on Firm 
Equity Value,” Information Systems Research. 
Chen, L., Baird, A., and Straub, D. 2019. “Fostering Participant Health Knowledge and Attitudes: An Econometric Study of a Chronic Disease-
Focused Online Health Community,” Journal of Management Information Systems, 36(1), pp.194-229. 
Chen, W., Gu, B., Ye, Q., and Zhu, K. 2019. “Measuring and managing the externality of managerial responses to online customer 
reviews,” Information Systems Research, 30(1), pp. 81-96. 
Cho, H., Knijinenburg, B., Kobsa, A., and Li, Y. 2018. "Collective Privacy Management in Social Media: A Cross-Cultural Validation," ACM 
Transactions on Computer-Human Interaction 25(3), pp. 1-33. 
Chung, S., Animesh, A., Han, K., and Pinsonneault, A. 2020. “Financial returns to firms’ communication actions on firm-initiated social media: 
evidence from Facebook business pages,” Information Systems Research, 31(1), pp.258-285. 
Deng, S., Huang, Z., Sinha, A., and Zhao, H. 2018. “The Interaction Between Microblog Sentiment and Stock Return: An Empirical 
Examination,” MIS Quarterly, 42(3), pp. 895-918. 
Dong, W., Liao, S., and Zhang, Z. 2018. “Leveraging Financial Social Media Data for Corporate Fraud Detection,” Journal of Management 
Information Systems, 35(2), pp.461-487. 
Ghiassi, M., Zimbra, D., and Lee, S., 2016. “Targeted Twitter Sentiment Analysis for Brands Using Supervised Feature Engineering and the 
Dynamic Architecture for Artificial Neural Networks,” Journal of Management Information Systems, 33(4), pp.1034-1058. 
Gong, J., Abhishek, V. and Li, B., 2017. Examining the Impact of Keyword Ambiguity on Search Advertising Performance: A Topic Model 
Approach,” MIS Quarterly 43(3), pp. 805-829. 
Gyawali, B., Anastasiou, L., and Knoth, P. 2020. “Deduplication of Scholarly Documents using Locality Sensitive Hashing and Word 
Embeddings,” Proceedings of 12th Language Resources and Evaluation Conference, pp. 901-910. 
Heimbach, I., and Hinz, O. 2018. "The impact of sharing mechanism design on content sharing in online social networks," Information Systems 
Research, 29(3), pp. 592-611. 
Huang, J., Boh, W., and Goh, K. 2017. "A temporal study of the effects of online opinions: Inform-ation sources matter," Journal of Management 
Information Systems, 34(4), pp. 1169-1202. 
Huang, N., Hong, Y., and Burtch, G. 2017. "Social network integration and user content generation: Evidence from natural experiments," MIS 
Quarterly, 41(4), pp. 1035-1058. 
Hwang, E. H., Singh, P. V., and Argote, L. 2019. "Jack of all, master of some: Information network and innovation in crowdsourcing 
communities," Information Systems Research, 30(2) pp. 389-410. 
Khern-am-nuai, W, Kannan, K., and Ghasemkhani, H. 2018. "Extrinsic Versus Intrinsic Rewards for Contributing Reviews in an Online Platform," 
Information Systems Research, 29(4), pp. 871-892. 
Kumar, N., Venugopal, D., Qiu, L., and Kumar, S. 2019. "Detecting Anomalous Online Reviewers: an Unsupervised Approach Using Mixture 
Models," Journal of Management Information Systems, 36(4), pp. 1313-1346. 
Kraus, M., and Feuerriegel, S. 2017. "Decision support from financial disclosures with deep neural networks and transfer learning," Decision 
Support Systems, 104, pp. 38-48. 
Lappas, T., Sabnis, G., and Valkanas, G. 2016. "The Impact of Fake Reviews on Online Visibility: A Vulnerability Assessment of the Hotel 
Industry," Information Systems Research, 27(4), pp. 940-961. 

12 
Lee, G.M., He, S., Lee, J., and Whinston, A.B. 2020. “Matching Mobile Applications for Cross-Promotion.” Information Systems 
Research, 31(3), pp.865-891. 
Li, J., Larsen, K., and Abbasi, A. 2020. "TheoryOn: A Design Framework and System for Unlocking Behavioral Knowledge Through Ontology 
Learning," MIS Quarterly, 44(4), pp. 1733-1772. 
Li, W., Chen, H., and Nunamaker, J. F. 2016. "Identifying and Profiling Key Sellers in Cyber Carding Community: AZSecure Text Mining 
System," Journal of Management Information Systems, 33(4), pp. 1059-1086. 
Liu, X., Zhang, B., Susarla, A., and Padman, R. 2020a. "Go to YouTube and Call Me in the Morning: Use of Social Media for Chronic Conditions,” 
MIS Quarterly, 44(1b), pp. 257-283. 
Liu, X., Wang, G. A., Fan, W., and Zhang, Z. 2020b. "Finding Useful Solutions in Online Knowledge Communities: A Theory-Driven Design and 
Multilevel Analysis," Information Systems Research, 31(3). 
Liu, Y., Pant, G., and Sheng, O. R. L. 2020c. "Predicting Labor Market Competition: Leveraging Interfirm Network and Employee Skills," 
Information Systems Research, forthcoming. 
Mai, F., Shan, Z., Bai, Q., Wang, X., and Chiang, R. H. L. 2018. "How does social media impact Bitcoin value? A Test of the Silent Majority 
Hypothesis," Journal of Management Information Systems, 35(1), pp. 19-52. 
Mejia, J., Mankad, S., and Gopal, A. 2019. "A for Effort? Using the Crowd to Identify Moral Hazard in New York City Restaurant Hygiene 
Inspections," Information Systems Research, 30(4), pp. 1363-1386. 
Mousavi, R., and Gu, B. 2019. "The Impact of Twitter Adoption on Lawmakers’ Voting Orientations," Information Systems Research, 30(1), pp. 
133-153. 
Mousavi, R., Johar, M., and Mookerjee, V. J. "The Voice of the Customer: Managing Customer Care in Twitter," Information Systems Research, 
31(2), pp. 340-360. 
Naseem, U., Razzak, I., Musial, K. and Imran, M. 2020. "Transformer based deep intelligent contextual embedding for twitter sentiment 
analysis," Future Generation Computer Systems, 113, pp. 58-69. 
Pan, Y., Huang, P., and Gopal, A. 2019. "Storm Clouds on the Horizon? New Entry Threats and R&D Investments in the US IT Industry," 
Information Systems Research, 30(2), pp. 540-562. 
Qi, D., Su, L., Song, J., Cui, E., Bharti, T., and Sacheti, A., 2020. ”Imagebert: Cross-Modal Pre-Training with Large-Scale Weak-Supervised 
Image-Text Data,” (arXiv preprint arXiv:2001.07966). 
Rhue, L., and Sundararajan, A. 2019. "Playing to the Crowd? Digital Visibility and the Social Dynamics of Purchase Disclosure," MIS Quarterly, 
43(4), pp. 1127-1141. 
Saifee, D. H., Bardhan, I.R., Lahiri, A., and Zheng, Z. 2019. "Adherence to Clinical Guidelines, Electronic Health Record Use, and Online 
Reviews," Journal of Management Information Systems 36(4), pp. 1071-1104. 
Samtani, S., Chinn, R, Chen, H., and Nunamaker, J. F. 2017. "Exploring emerging hacker assets and key hackers for proactive cyber threat 
intelligence," Journal of Management Information Systems, 34(4), pp. 1023-1053. 
Shi, D., Guan, J., Zurada, J., and Manikas, A. 2017. "A Data-Mining Approach to Identification of Risk Factors in Safety Management Systems," 
Journal of Management Information Systems, 34(4), pp. 1054-1081. 
Shi, Z., Lee, G. M., and Whinston, A. B. 2016. "Toward a Better Measure of Business Proximity: Topic Modeling for Industry Intelligence," MIS 
Quarterly, 40(4), pp. 1035-1056. 
Shin, D., He, S., Lee, G.M., Whinston, A.B., Cetintas, S. and Lee, K.C. 2019. "Enhancing Social Media Analysis with Visual Data Analytics: A 
Deep Learning Approach," MIS Quarterly, 2020. 
Siering, M., Koch, J. and Deokar, A. 2016. "Detecting Fraudulent Behavior on Crowdfunding Platforms: The Role of Linguistic and Content-
Based Cues in Static and Dynamic Contexts," Journal of Management Information Systems, 33(2), pp. 421-455. 
Van Osch, W., and Steinfield, C. W. 2018. "Strategic Visibility in Enterprise Social Media: Implications for Network Formation and Boundary 
Spanning," Journal of Management Information Systems, 35(2), pp. 647-682. 
Velichety, S., Ram, S., and Bockstedt, J. "Quality Assessment of Peer-Produced Content in Knowledge Repositories Using Development and 
Coordination Activities," Journal of Management Information Systems, 36(2), pp. 478-512. 
Wang, A., Singh, A., Michael, J., Hill, F., Levy, O., and Bowman, S.R. 2018a. "GLUE: A Multi-Task Benchmark and Analysis Platform for Natural 
Language Understanding," EMNLP Workshop on BlackBox NLP, pp 353-355. 
Wang, Q., Li, B., and Singh, P. V. 2018b. "Copycats vs. Original Mobile Apps: A Machine Learning Copycat-Detection Method and Empirical 
Analysis," Information Systems Research, 29(2), pp. 273-291. 
Wang, Z., Jiang, C., Zhao, H., and Ding, Y. 2020. "Mining Semantic Soft Factors for Credit Risk Evaluation in Peer-to-Peer Lending," Journal 
of Management Information Systems, 37(1), pp. 282-308. 
Wolf, T., Chaumond, J., Debut, L., Sanh, V., Delangue, C., Moi, A., Cistac, P., Funtowicz, M., Davison, J., Shleifer, S., and Louf, R. 2020. 
"Transformers: State-of-the-Art Natural Language Processing," Proceedings of EMNLP 2020: Demonstrations, pp. 38-45. 
Wu, J., Huang, L., and Zhao, J. L. 2019. "Operationalizing Regulatory Focus in the Digital Age: Evidence from an E-Commerce Context," MIS 
Quarterly, 43(3), pp. 745-764. 
Yang, M., Adomavicius, G., Burtch, G., and Ren, Y. 2018. "Mind the Gap: Accounting for Measurement Error and Misclassification in Variables 
Generated via Data Mining," Information Systems Research, 29(1), pp. 4-24. 
Yang, Z., Dai, Z., Yang, Y., Carbonell, J., Salakhutdinov, R.R., and Le, Q.V. 2019. "XLNet: Generalized Autoregressive Pretraining for Language 
Understanding," Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems.  
Yoo, E., Gu, B., and Rabinovich, E. 2019. "Diffusion on Social Media Platforms: A Point Process Model for Interaction among Similar Content," 

13 
Journal of Management Information Systems, 36(4), pp. 1105-1141. 
Yue, W. T., Wang, Q.-H., and Hui, K.-L. 2019. "See no evil, hear no evil? Dissecting the impact of online hacker forums," MIS Quarterly, 43(1), 
pp. 73-95. 
Zhang, D., Zhou, L., Kehoe, J. L., and Kilic, I. Y. et al. 2016. "What online reviewer behaviors really matter? Effects of verbal and nonverbal 
behaviors on detection of fake online reviews," Journal of Management Information Systems, 33(2), pp. 456-481. 
Zhang, K., Bhattacharyya, S., and Ram, S. 2016. "Large-Scale Network Analysis for Online Social Brand Advertising," MIS Quarterly, 40(4), 
pp. 849-868. 
Zhang, W, and Ram, S. 2020. "A Comprehensive Analysis of Triggers and Risk Factors for Asthma Based on Machine Learning and Large 
Heterogeneous Data Sources," MIS Quarterly, 44(1), pp. 305-339. 
Zhou, S, Qiao, Z., Du, Q., Wang, G.A., Fan, W. and Yan, X. 2018. “Measuring Customer Agility From Online Reviews Using Big Data Text 
Analytics.” Journal of Management Information Systems, 35(2), pp. 510-539. 
