Defining a New NLP Playground
Sha Li1, Chi Han1, Pengfei Yu1, Carl Edwards1, Manling Li2, Xingyao Wang1,
Yi R. Fung1, Charles Yu1, Joel R. Tetreault3, Eduard H. Hovy4, Heng Ji1
1 University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign 2 Northwestern University
3 Dataminr, Inc. 4 University of Melbourne
{shal2, chihan3, pengfei4, cne2, xingyao6, yifung2, ctyu2, hengji}@illinois.edu
manling.li@northwestern.edu, jtetreault@dataminr.com, eduard.hovy@unimelb.edu.au
Abstract
The recent explosion of performance of large
language models (LLMs) has changed the field
of Natural Language Processing (NLP) more
abruptly and seismically than any other shift
in the field’s 80-year history. This has resulted
in concerns that the field will become homog-
enized and resource-intensive. The new status
quo has put many academic researchers, espe-
cially PhD students, at a disadvantage. This
paper aims to define a new NLP playground
by proposing 20+ PhD-dissertation-worthy re-
search directions, covering theoretical analy-
sis, new and challenging problems, learning
paradigms, and interdisciplinary applications.
1
Introduction
It is the best of times. It is the worst of times. We
are living in an incredibly exciting yet strange era
of Natural Language Processing (NLP) research
due to the recent advancements of large language
models (LLMs) on various data modalities, from
natural language (Brown et al., 2020) and program-
ming language (Chen et al., 2021; Wang et al.,
2023a) to vision (Radford et al., 2021; Li et al.,
2022a; Wang et al., 2022b) and molecules (Ed-
wards et al., 2022; Zeng et al., 2022; Su et al.,
2022).
At the core, LLMs produce text sequences
word-by-word by computing conditional proba-
bility based on context. At a sufficiently large
scale, they can answer questions, generate argu-
ments, write poetry, impersonate characters, ne-
gotiate contracts and achieve competitive results
across a wide variety of standard NLP tasks includ-
ing entity typing, sentiment analysis, and textual
entailment, showcasing “emergent behavior” such
as in-context learning (Wei et al., 2022).
However, this “moment of breakthrough” re-
ceived a polarized response in the NLP research
community: while some welcomed the progress,
others felt lost. Why is NLP so vulnerable to a
single advancement?
In retrospect, when NLP adopted the machine
learning paradigm in the early 1990s it started
along a journey that led to increased homogeneity.
The dominant methodology became: (1) Identify a
challenge problem or task; (2) Create a dataset of
desired input-output instances; (3) Select or define
one or more evaluation metrics; and (4) Develop,
apply, and refine machine learning models and al-
gorithms to improve performance.
If a challenge did not support the creation of
a dataset (e.g., text styles of people in different
professions) or metric (e.g., summaries of novels
or movies), or worse yet if it was not amenable
to a machine learning solution, then mainstream
NLP simply did not address it. For a long time,
NLG was in this position because its starting point
—semantic representations— were neither standard-
ized, nor easy to produce at scale, nor amenable
to direct evaluation. No dataset, no metric — little
attention. Yet multi-sentence NLG starting with
deep semantic input, and with output tailored to
different audiences, is arguably the most complex
task in NLP, since it involves so many aspects of lin-
guistic communication together. As such, it surely
deserved the concentrated effort that NLP has be-
stowed on MT, Speech Recognition, QA, and other
major challenges in the past.
Suddenly, within the space of a few months, the
landscape changed. NLP encountered an engine
that seemingly could do everything the field had
worked on for decades. Many subtasks in NLP
seemed to become irrelevant overnight: Which
grammar formalism to parse into? Which rhetor-
ical structure and focus control model for multi-
sentence coherence? Which neural architecture is
optimal for information extraction or summariza-
tion? None of that matters if the magical engine
can do the entire end-to-end language-to-language
task seamlessly (Sanh et al., 2022; OpenAI, 2023).
arXiv:2310.20633v1  [cs.CL]  31 Oct 2023

Dozens of Ph.D. theses lost their point, because
their point was a small step in the process that no
longer seemed needed. The dominant paradigm
is also challenged: instead of setting up bench-
marks and then developing models accordingly,
people started discovering new abilities of such
models (Bubeck et al., 2023) (who knew that LLMs
could draw unicorns using TikZ?).
An important constraint is the practicality of the
goal. This newer generation of LLMs is beyond the
practical reach of all but a small number of NLP
researchers. Unless one of the organizations build-
ing LLMs provides free access for research —an
unlikely occurrence given the estimated six-figure
monthly expense to run one— or a procedure is de-
veloped to construct university-sized ones cheaply,
the academic NLP community will have to be quite
creative in identifying things that either generative
LLMs cannot do in principle or applications that
can be built without re-training them and at the
same time are important and doable in practice.
Inspired by the efforts of a group of PhD stu-
dents (Ignat et al., 2023), we believe it would be a
valuable exercise to define new research roadmaps.
We believe that while LLMs seemingly close re-
search avenues, they also open up new ones. Cur-
rent LLMs remain somewhat monolithic, expen-
sive, amnesic, delusional, uncreative, static, as-
sertive, stubborn, and biased black boxes. They
still have a surprising deficiency (near-random per-
formance) in acquiring certain types of knowl-
edge (Wang et al., 2023f), knowledge reasoning
and prediction. In this paper, we aim to define a
new NLP playground by proposing a wide range
of PhD-dissertation-worthy research directions to
democratize NLP research again. In particular, we
cover observations and suggestions along the per-
spectives of LLM theory (Section 2), challenging
new tasks (Section 3), important but understudied
learning paradigms (Section 4), proper evaluation
(Section 5), and interdisciplinary applications (Sec-
tion 6).
2
Theoretical Analysis of LLMs
There is a growing necessity to open the black box
of machine learning models through theoretical
analysis. In this section, we advocate for both
mathematical (by mathematical analysis) and ex-
perimental (inducing rules and laws such as Ghor-
bani et al. (2021); Hoffmann et al. (2022) from
extensive experimental observations) theories of
LLMs.
2.1
Mechanism Behind Emergent Abilities
LLMs have displayed impressive emergent capa-
bilities such as instruction following, chain-of-
thought reasoning, and in-context learning (Brown
et al., 2020; Wei et al., 2022; Min et al., 2022;
Wei et al.; Logan IV et al., 2022; Wei et al., 2021).
For example, the ability of instruction following
enables models to follow novel instructions. For
guidance on prompting beyond heuristics, we need
a comprehensive understanding of how instructions
work. Some initial theories suggest an explanation
through Bayesian inference (Jiang, 2023), which
relies on strong assumptions without practical in-
sights. Here we advocate for theories on the fea-
sibility of constraining or measuring models’ de-
viation from instructions. A multi-player setting
is also important, where one user’s prompt is com-
posed with another player’s prompt (such as Ope-
nAI’s hidden meta instruction) before being fed
into LLMs, where additional security issues might
arise for the first user.
Chain-of-thought (CoT) reasoning is where
LLMs tackle complex tasks by generating solu-
tions in a sequential, step-by-step manner. CoT
theoretically enhances the computational capacity
of Transformer-based models to solve problems
exceeding O(n2) complexity. While some con-
structive explanations have been suggested (Feng
et al., 2023a), they are not fully validated as the
underlying mechanism. Importantly, it is worth
investigating the verifiability problem of the rea-
soning chain (whether CoT can be trusted as a valid
logic chain) and its calibration (whether LLMs for-
mulate ad-hoc CoTs for arbitrary conclusions).
In-context learning (ICL), where LLMs learn
from demonstration examples in-context without
parameter updates, has seen explanations based on
gradient-descent (Akyürek et al., 2022; von Oswald
et al., 2022), kernel regression (Han et al., 2023a) or
Bayesian inference (Xie et al.; Jiang, 2023; Wang
et al., 2023d). Important challenges remain and ne-
cessitate more comprehensive explanations, such
as sensitivity to example order and robustness to
perturbed input-output mapping. We hypothesize
that a deeper understanding of how LLMs balance
algorithmic solutions with implicit language infer-
ence can help clarify these questions, which might
be approachable by exploring how LLMs disentan-
gle semantic and functional information.

Model-specific vs. Model-agnostic is a persis-
tent gap among explanations, raising the question
of whether the emergent abilities depend on the
Transformer architecture or simply fitting the pre-
training data. With some recent work suggesting
that other architectures achieve comparable perfor-
mance in some domains (Peng et al., 2023; Zhai
et al., 2021), this open question is important for
prioritizing among model design (including other
architectures), prompting engineering, and simply
carefully collecting larger datasets. To bridge this
gap, we also advocate for theoretical frameworks
beyond (mixture) of HMMs to better model lan-
guage data properties.
2.2
Theoretical Robustness and Transparency
Robustness is to ensure that no backdoor designs
or adversarial usages can be easily implemented
in the model. Although not a novel problem by
definition, this issue has new implications and for-
mulations in the LLM era. In a situation where
most users do not have access to the pre-training
and model-editing details, we call for research into
robustness diagnosis for arbitrary given LLM. De-
spite negative evidence suggesting it may be nearly
impossible to prevent adversarial prompting under
certain conditions (Wolf et al., 2023), we maintain
a positive outlook and hope that it can be potentially
overturned under more realistic conditions, such
as high computational complexity in searching for
adversarial prompts.
Transparency in LLMs is concerned with align-
ment between the model’s self-explanations and
its internal computational rationale. With empiri-
cal studies suggesting that LLMs may not always
accurately express their “thoughts” (Turpin et al.,
2023), computational modeling of LLM intentions
becomes essential. The quest for transparency is
important for preventing LLMs from generating
misleading rationales to humans. We advocate for
establishing both positive and negative theorems
on counteracting false rationales under different
conditions, along with examining associations be-
tween “faithfulness” modes and neuron activities
in specific architectures.
3
New and Challenging Tasks
3.1
Knowledge Acquisition and Reasoning
Knowledge inside LLMs
The black box prop-
erty of LLMs poses a significant challenge when
it comes to evaluating implicit knowledge within
the model. Initial studies have been conducted
to elicit/identify (Cohen et al., 2023; Shin et al.,
2020; Petroni et al., 2019, 2020; Fung et al., 2023;
Gudibande et al., 2023; Li et al., 2023c) and local-
ize/edit knowledge (Dai et al., 2021; Meng et al.,
2022a,b; Zhu et al., 2020; Mitchell et al., 2022a;
De Cao et al., 2021; Hase et al., 2023; Meng et al.,
2022a; Mitchell et al., 2022b). However, our under-
standing of the knowledge organization within lan-
guage models (where and how knowledge is stored)
is still limited, and it remains uncertain whether full
comprehension is achievable. Moreover, existing
studies primarily focus on factual or commonsense
knowledge, overlooking more complex knowledge
such as rules of inference (Boolos et al., 2002).
Large-Scale Knowledge Reasoning
LLMs have
demonstrated promising performance across vari-
ous reasoning tasks (Dua et al., 2019; Miao et al.,
2020; Cobbe et al., 2021; Yu et al., 2020; Bhagavat-
ula et al., 2020; Talmor et al., 2019) when appropri-
ately prompted, such as through the use of Chain-
of-Thought and improved Chain-of-Thought (Wei
et al.; Chowdhery et al., 2022; Xue et al., 2023;
Diao et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2023e; Paul et al.,
2023) or Program-of-Thought (Chen et al., 2022).
However, current reasoning benchmarks (Cobbe
et al., 2021; Ling et al., 2017; Patel et al., 2021;
Hosseini et al., 2014; Miao et al., 2020; Koncel-
Kedziorski et al., 2016; Talmor et al., 2019; Geva
et al., 2021) focus on reasoning with small-scale
context, typically consisting of hundreds of words.
This level of reasoning falls short when tackling
complex tasks, such as scientific research, which
demands knowledge from extensive volumes of
related literature and domain-specific knowledge
bases. Retrieval-augmentation (Guu et al., 2020;
Khandelwal et al., 2020; Borgeaud et al., 2022;
Izacard et al., 2022; Lai et al., 2023b) serves as
a powerful tool for integrating large-scale contex-
tual knowledge into language models. However,
current retrieval methods predominantly rely on
semantic similarities, while humans possess the ac-
commodative learning (Illeris, 2018) ability to draw
inspirations from semantically dissimilar knowl-
edge and transfer it to the target task. To achieve
this, we not only need to extend the input context
length, but also understand how models organize
knowledge and develop more effective knowledge
representations and evaluation metrics (Section 5).

Faithfulness and Factuality
Ensuring the truth-
fulness of generation output requires optimal uti-
lization of internal knowledge within the model
and external knowledge, which includes the in-
put context, knowledge bases, and open web re-
sources. Access to external knowledge typically re-
lies on the success of information retrieval (Lewis
et al., 2020; He et al., 2023; Yu et al., 2023c,b),
information extraction (Wen et al., 2021; Huang
et al., 2023), grounded generation (Li et al., 2021,
2022b; Gao et al., 2023a; Weller et al., 2023; Lai
et al., 2023a) and knowledge-augmented genera-
tion (Petroni et al., 2020; Geva et al., 2023). In-
ternal knowledge involves the implicit parametric
knowledge stored within the model, the correction
and refinement of which is limited to the infer-
ence stage (Lee et al., 2022; Meng et al., 2022a,b;
Chen et al., 2023a). To effectively minimize hal-
lucination and correct factual errors, it is crucial
to not only decipher how knowledge is interpreted
through model parameter patterns, but to under-
stand how the model pieces knowledge together
and governs the underlying logic during genera-
tion. A significant challenge in knowledge-guided
generation is defining an appropriate knowledge
representation that supports both complex struc-
tures and distributed representations. We believe
this representation should combine the strength
of symbolic-based reasoning to minimize unwar-
ranted inferences, and the flexibility of distributed
representations to encode any semantic granular-
ity. Drawing insights from misinformation detec-
tion and knowledge comparative reasoning systems
could also be one useful dimension of signals for
improving faithfulness and factuality (Liu et al.,
2021a; Fung et al., 2021; Wu et al., 2022, 2023).
3.2
Creative Generation
Although people have long envisioned using mod-
els for creative writing, this has only become a
reality recently, when language generation models
could reliably produce fluent text. Compared to
previous sections where generated text is a vehi-
cle for knowledge, creative use cases focus more
on the style or form of language and encourage
open-ended output. 1
Creative Writing Assistance
Since language
models offer conditional generation ability out-of-
1In this section we limit our scope to applications of text
generation, however, we fully acknowledge the potential of
multi-modal creative generation, such as generating personal
avatars, movie clips, and 3D scenes.
the-box, they have been adopted by many people in
the creative industry for brainstorming or research
tools (Kato and Goto, 2023; Gero et al., 2023;
Halperin and Lukin, 2023). One key challenge
for such tools is promoting creative generation, in-
stead of generating the most probable continuation,
which was what language models were trained for.
Current LMs have been observed by writers to over-
rely on cliques or tropes and produce overly moral-
istic and predictable endings (Chakrabarty et al.,
2024). While the plot should be unexpected, details
in the story should not go against commonsense
(unless it is part of the setting), and maintain con-
sistency within the story. This requires a model
that enables controllability over the level of cre-
ativity in its output. Do we need to train a more
creative model, or can we fix the problem at the
inference stage? On the other hand, the focus on
detoxification of LMs through RLHF (reinforce-
ment learning with human feedback) might have
led to the incompetency of the model in navigating
deeper and morally challenging themes.
Another direction for exploration is how to build
better writing tools that work together with humans.
Some attempts have been made to allow users to
interact through instructions (Chakrabarty et al.,
2022) or use editing sequences to improve writing
quality (Schick et al., 2022). These could serve as
critical building blocks toward the goal of develop-
ing a model that supports different types of input
and can improve itself and personalize through in-
teraction. In addition, models can also assist in
different stages of writing, such as world-building
and reviewing drafts. It remains to be explored
where the model is most effective and where hu-
man writers should step in and make decisions.
Interactive Experiences
Text generation models
can not only be assistants for writing static scripts
but also open up an opportunity to create dynamic
and personalized experiences for the user by con-
ditioning on their input. These interactive expe-
riences can be used for education, therapy, game
design, or filmmaking. More recently, there have
been attempts to connect conversational models
with other components such as speech recogni-
tion, text-to-speech, and audio-to-face rendering
to create an end-to-end immersive experience of
interacting with non-playable characters23. An-
other related open area for exploration is to create
2NVIDIA blog
3https://charisma.ai/

emotion-oriented experiences, which is one of the
key goals of storytelling (Lugmayr et al., 2017).
We should consider creating narratives based on
the desired emotional response and the reader’s
feedback (Brahman and Chaturvedi, 2020; Ziems
et al., 2022; Mori et al., 2022).
4
New and Challenging Learning
Paradigms
4.1
Multimodal Learning
In light of the remarkable progress of the language
world, we are now poised to venture into a multi-
tude of modalities that were previously beyond con-
sideration. Some learning signals stem from read-
ing static data, such as images, videos, speech, and
more, which will be discussed in this section; while
other signals require interacting with the physical
world, which will be detailed in Section 4.2.2.
Multimodal encoding, at its core, involves learn-
ing the “correspondence” or “alignment” among
various modalities, which always facing the chal-
lenges of Granularity Difference across modali-
ties. This is a new and growing area with several
solutions proposed to align across modalities: (1)
a hard alignment that enables granularity-aware
fusion (Tan and Bansal, 2020; Li et al., 2022a; Mo-
meni et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2022c, 2023f); (2)
a soft alignment to project the text space with the
vision space (Zhou et al., 2023; Li et al., 2023b;
Zhu et al., 2023; Lin et al., 2023). Beyond these
semantic alignment challenges, there are further
difficulties when it comes to non-semantic abstrac-
tions:
Geometric Reasoning: Recognizing spatial
relationships, such as “left”, “right”, “beside”,
“above”, or “behind”, requires comprehensive ge-
ometric mental simulation, which existing models
consistently making errors (Kamath et al., 2023).
Maintaining transformation invariance, regardless
of position, rotation, or scale, remains a core chal-
lenge. Besides, current models, predominantly
trained on 2D images, inherently miss out on the in-
tricacies of 3D spatial configurations, inhibiting un-
derstanding of depth and relative object sizes based
on distance. To address these challenges, existing
efforts augment existing large models with an agent
view to infer spatial layouts, predicting possible
navigations from visual and textual cues (Liu et al.,
2022; Berrios et al., 2023; Feng et al., 2023b). How-
ever, we believe the underlying challenge lies in the
missing objective of geometric reasoning. Existing
pretraining paradigms predominantly focus on se-
mantic alignment between image/video-language
pairs, while features (e.g., low-level edges, lines)
are largely omitted in the encoded image represen-
tation.
Context Ambiguity: Accurate understanding
should factor in the wide context of temporal
dynamics, social dynamics, emotional dynam-
ics, and more. The temporal dimension presents
a unique challenge in understanding vision and
speech. Existing methods only focus on tempo-
ral ordering (Zellers et al., 2021, 2022) and for-
ward/backward generation (Seo et al., 2022; Yang
et al., 2023a; Cheng et al., 2023). However, tem-
poral dynamics is much more complicated. For
instance, a video gesture (like a nod) may corre-
spond to a later affirmation in the speech (Li et al.,
2019). Such ambiguity requires reasoning over a
wider context with various constraints. Emotion,
another yet-underexplored abstract dimension, is
conveyed through tone, pitch, speed in speech, and
through expressions or body language in vision.
Besides, social norm understanding is challenging
as the same word or facial expression can convey
different emotions depending on the context. Thus,
potential solutions require to take into account vari-
ous contexts, including preceding conversations or
events, along with casual reasoning.
Hierarchical Perception: Human cognition is
inherently hierarchical. When processing visual
signals, our attention is not uniformly distributed
across every pixel but focus on salient regions that
carry the most information, allowing us to quickly
identify key features and make sense of our sur-
roundings (Hochstein and Ahissar, 2002; Eicken-
berg et al., 2017). However, existing models over-
look such attention hierarchy and tend to lose fo-
cus when asking about visual details (Gao et al.,
2023b). To address this challenge, interpreting nat-
ural scenes requires hierarchical recognition, from
broader contexts down to detailed attribute abstrac-
tion. Besides, aligning visual hierarchies with lin-
guistic structures is important. Further, it requires
the ability to perform abstraction over details, bal-
ancing between an abstracted scene understanding
and intricate recognition is an ongoing challenge.
4.2
Online Learning
Trained on static corpora, existing models are in-
capable of keeping themselves updated on new in-
formation or learning from interaction history for

self-improvement. To alleviate these issues, this
section discusses the need for next-generation mod-
els to learn in an online setting.
4.2.1
Updating Information Within Models
A straightforward approach to updating models is
to continue training on new data. This is how-
ever not efficient, since we only care about new
information which accounts for a small fraction of
the data, nor effective, as fine-tuning on new data
might interfere with learned information in mod-
els. To achieve efficient updates, we would like
the model to automatically identify notable infor-
mation in new data (Yu and Ji, 2023) instead of
relying on heavy human selection or preprocess-
ing as in knowledge editing tasks (Dai et al., 2021;
Meng et al., 2022a,b; Zhu et al., 2020; De Cao
et al., 2021; Hase et al., 2023; Mitchell et al.,
2022b). Effectively updating the model requires
overcoming the bias toward (Yu and Ji, 2023; Wei
et al., 2023) as well as avoiding catastrophic for-
getting (McCloskey and Cohen, 1989; Ratcliff,
1990) of learned prior information. This might
be achieved by changing the training paradigm to
increase model capacity over time (e.g. progres-
sive training (Gong et al., 2019), MoE (Shen et al.,
2023)) or better understanding of knowledge or-
ganization within models (as detailed in Section
3.1) so that edits can be performed with minimal
interference.
4.2.2
Learning from Continuous Interactions
Interaction is essential in human learning (Jarvis,
2006). Humans learn how to best tackle different
tasks by interacting with the environment, and
they learn social norms from their interactions with
other humans. Moreover, such interactions are
multi-turn in nature, allowing humans to itera-
tively refine their actions for the task at hand and
continuously improve their mental model’s capa-
bility of performing similar tasks in the future.
Interaction with Environments
We consider en-
vironments a broad category of systems that pro-
vide feedback upon actions. The world we live
in can be regarded as a typical environment: the
law of physics would decide the world state change
and provide sensor stimuli to the actor (e.g., Ahn
et al. (2022)).
Training a model (i.e., Embod-
ied AI) that can interact with the physical world
through multi-modal input (Driess et al., 2023;
Jiang et al., 2023) poses challenges related to multi-
modal learning (Section 4.1) as well as unique chal-
lenges due to long-horizon planning requirements
and dynamic environments. The concept of envi-
ronments also extends to human-crafted environ-
ments (e.g., programming language interpreters
(Wang et al., 2023b), embodied simulators (Shrid-
har et al., 2020)) that provide automated feedback
for any input by rules. Such artificial environments
allow easy collection of automatic feedback which
could prepare models for deployment in the physi-
cal world.
Interaction with Humans
Beyond learning from
generic human preference towards building gener-
alist agents (Ouyang et al., 2022), real-world ap-
plications typically require customizable solutions
(e.g., personalized agents) to be created efficiently.
We advocate for a new learning paradigm where
models can be taught through (multi-modal) inter-
actions with humans, including natural language
feedback (Padmakumar et al., 2022; Wang et al.,
2023c) and physical demonstration (Lee, 2017).
Such complex problem nature may also involve
customized retrieval from a large toolset of spe-
cialized models and effective action planning (Qin
et al., 2023; Yuan et al., 2023).
5
Evaluation
As models become increasingly powerful and
multi-purpose, their evaluation has become a grow-
ing bottleneck for advancing NLP. We first discuss
the question of “what should be evaluated” fol-
lowed by “how should we measure performance.”
5.1
Benchmarks
Language models are known to be multi-task
learners, and the new generation of LLMs can
achieve impressive performance under few-shot
or even zero-shot conditions.
This has led to
the creation of many general benchmarks such as
GLUE (Wang et al., 2018), SuperGLUE (Wang
et al., 2019), MMLU (Hendrycks et al., 2021),
Super-NaturalInstructions (Wang et al., 2022a),
HELM (Liang et al., 2022), and AGIEval (Zhong
et al., 2023).
While setting up comprehensive
benchmarks is useful, current benchmarks still have
the following limitations: (1) lack diverse and dif-
ficult tasks that are important for real-world appli-
cations; (2) only contain static data sets that are
not sufficient for applications that require multi-
turn context-dependent input such as situation-
grounded dialog; (3) robustness deficiencies, and
(4) lack of support for performance analysis.

Although some benchmarks extend to thousands
of NLP tasks, most of them are variants of sentence-
level tasks, while ignoring more challenging tasks
such as structured prediction and cross-document
reasoning. For example, Li et al. (2023a) reported
that LLMs methods obtained 25.2%-68.5% lower
performance than state-of-the-art methods based
on much smaller models for nearly all of the Infor-
mation Extraction tasks. Task design should also
aim to assist with human users’ daily tasks, as ex-
emplified by the most popular tasks being related
to planning and seeking advice by the ChatGPT
users at ShareGPT 4. Another issue is that bench-
marks quickly saturate due to the development of
newer models, and thus “live” benchmarks that can
be updated over time (Kiela et al., 2021) might be
worth pursuing.
To move beyond static data, we believe that simu-
lated environments such as large-scale multi-player
game environments can serve as an efficient solu-
tion. Games have been used as a way of bench-
marking progress of reinforcement learning algo-
rithms (Silver et al., 2018; Guss et al., 2021) and
also used to collect static datasets in NLP (Urbanek
et al., 2019; Bara et al., 2021; Lai et al., 2022).
Game worlds provide a cheap way to explore dif-
ferent environments and situations, which is neces-
sary for grounded language learning and learning
through interaction. Humans can interact with mod-
els playing as characters in the game to evaluate
their performance, or we can let models interact
with each other (Park et al., 2023) and evaluate
their interaction behavior as a whole.
Finally, we advocate for work on model diag-
nosis beyond the current brittle paradigm of case
study through manual inspection: methods that
help identify which parts of the input the model
underperform on (Liu et al., 2021b), what are the
model’s behavior patterns and what data this per-
formance could be attributed to (Ilyas et al., 2022).
5.2
Metrics
Automatic evaluation metrics have been an acceler-
ant for NLP progress in the last 20 years. Heuristic-
based metrics (Papineni et al., 2002; Lin, 2004;
Lavie and Agarwal, 2007) have been found to cor-
relate weakly with human preferences (Liu et al.,
2016). As a result, the field has pivoted to model-
based metrics which have shown better alignment
with human judgment (Lowe et al., 2017; Zhang
4https://sharegpt.com/
et al., 2020; Sellam et al., 2020; Yuan et al., 2021;
Zhong et al., 2022). However such metrics might
allow for shortcut approaches or come with biases
embedded in the scoring model (Sun et al., 2022).
Automatic metrics struggle with open-ended nat-
ural language generation problems such as con-
versation and creative writing tasks due to the ab-
sence of ground truth. LLMs present an oppor-
tunity to tackle this problem (Zheng et al., 2023;
Fu et al., 2023; Liu et al., 2023b), but they also
suffer from certain biases including position, ver-
bosity, and self-enhancement biases (models prefer
themselves) that users should be cautious about.
We need to develop metrics beyond accuracy and
evaluate aspects such as robustness (Chen et al.,
2023b), bias, consistency (Chan et al., 2023), infor-
mativeness, truthfulness, and efficiency.
On the other hand, human evaluation has tradi-
tionally been perceived as the more trustworthy
evaluation method and a better indicator of the
model utility. However, as models improve, it is
questionable whether crowdworkers are adequate
to serve as assessors (or annotators), particularly
in fields such as science, healthcare, or law. An-
notator bias (Geva et al., 2019; Sap et al., 2022)
and disagreement (Fornaciari et al., 2021) should
also be taken into consideration. If we design our
models to be “assistants”, a more useful human
evaluation might not be to identify which output is
more correct, but which output can help the human
complete the task more efficiently.
6
NLP+X Interdisciplinary Applications
6.1
Human-Centered NLP
As LLMs become ubiquitous in both the research
and public spheres, mitigating potential harms,
both allocation and representation (Blodgett et al.,
2020), to social groups using these models must be
a core consideration. Social bias and stereotypes
are a common way for LLMs to materialize these
internal defects, so debiasing these models is im-
portant for fairness and robustness. Furthermore,
LLMs must be aware of the extra-contextual re-
quirement of abiding by the sociocultural norms
expected by the user (Fung et al., 2023), especially
when used as chatbots directly interacting with hu-
mans.
Post-hoc debiasing and improving the social
awareness of pretrained LLMs are important to this
end. Though modern approaches have made great
advances in democratizing LLM training, most

builders don’t have a need to pretrain their own
LLMs, opting to, at most, fine-tune them. Rather
than hope that an LLM is unbiased after pretrain-
ing, many researchers have discussed the utility in
having a separate general debiasing step to account
for any unintended associations stemming from
pretraining (Yu et al., 2023a; Omrani et al., 2023;
Yang et al., 2023b). Relatively less explored is the
complementary requirement of augmenting LLMs
with the awareness and ability to abide by sociocul-
tural norms. The crux of the problem is training the
model to recognize what behaviors in its training
data are the results of sociocultural norms, discover
why and when those norms should be followed, and
how those norms can be followed (i.e., is it only
in a specific way or is this a behavior that can be
generalized across situations?).
Another important direction is personalization
based on the user, particularly for chatbots. LLMs
have an amazing ability to multiplex behavior
based on the language context provided in the
prompt (Section 2.1), but they do not have the abil-
ity to account for the audience apart from what’s
inferred from text. This poses a problem for per-
sonalization because the same context or conver-
sation can have differing levels of appropriateness
depending on the audience (e.g., something that
one finds relatively harmless may be incredibly of-
fensive to someone else). Thus, we must improve
LLMs’ ability to infer the personal norms and ap-
propriate behaviors in each individual context in-
dependently and act accordingly. This may, in part,
involve bridging the gap between distant users who
share similar beliefs to decode latent representa-
tions (Sun et al., 2023). In parallel, we can also
provide users with multi-dimensional controls for
generation (Han et al., 2023b), including their sen-
timent, political stance, and moral values, so that
they can directly influence the model’s language
usage.
6.2
NLP for Science
One area with the most potential impact from NLP
is science (Hope et al., 2022; Zhang et al., 2023).
Although researchers have long been interested in
extracting actionable information from the litera-
ture (Hersh and Bhupatiraju, 2003; Griffiths and
Steyvers, 2004; Li et al., 2016; Wang et al., 2021),
this has been challenging due to the variety and
complexity of scientific language. With the grow-
ing capabilities of NLP techniques, intensified fo-
cus is now deserved because of both the potential
impacts and the challenges that will need to be
overcome.
One exciting emerging area is jointly learning
natural language and other data modalities in the
scientific domain (Edwards et al., 2021; Zeng et al.,
2022; Edwards et al., 2022; Taylor et al., 2022),
and one of the largest problems in current LLMs–
hallucination–becomes a strength for discovering
new molecules (Edwards et al., 2022), proteins (Liu
et al., 2023a), and materials (Xie et al., 2023).
Another noteworthy application is NLP for
Medicine. As a particular motivating example,
there are an estimated 1033 realistic drug-like
molecules (Polishchuk et al., 2013). Within these
drugs, there are substructures which confer benefi-
cial drug properties, and the knowledge about these
properties are reported in millions of scientific
papers. However, existing LLMs are pretrained
only from unstructured text and fail to capture this
knowledge, in part due to inconsistencies in the
literature.
Recent
solutions
for
domain-knowledge-
empowered LLMs include development of a
lightweight adapter framework to select and
integrate
structured
domain
knowledge
into
LLMs (Lai et al., 2023b), data augmentation for
knowledge distillation from LLMs in general
domain to scientific domain (Wang et al., 2023g),
and tool learning frameworks leveraging foun-
dation models for more complicated sequential
actions problem solving (Qin et al., 2023; Qian
et al., 2023). Overall, future research can explore
bespoke architectures, data acquisition techniques,
and training methodologies for comprehending the
diverse modalities, domain-specific knowledge,
and applications within science.
6.3
NLP for Education
LLMs readily capture a vast knowledge of many
subjects, and augmenting LLMs with external
knowledge naturally leads to improved abilities for
eliciting that knowledge to generate lesson plans
and materials. However, there are also applications
in education which seem distinct from general NLP
tasks. In particular, personalizing education and
the educational experience with LLMs would al-
low educators to focus on the more general efforts
of high-level teaching. Then, the utility of using
language models to educate comes not from the
language model’s ability to “learn" the appropriate

knowledge but in its ability to find associations.
One facet of this challenge comes from identifying
and analyzing gaps in a student’s understanding
or learning. For example, apart from simply scor-
ing essays or responses across discrete dimensions
such as fluency or sentence structure or by identi-
fying keyspans (Mathias and Bhattacharyya, 2020;
Takano and Ichikawa, 2022; Fiacco et al., 2022),
one could use LLMs to determine which parts of a
freeform submission indicate a gap and associate
it with a learning goal provided by the teacher,
without using specific (and costly to create) gold-
labeled responses, so that the student has actionable
feedback and can work on self-improvement. As
part of this work, we need to accurately identify
which portions of the response are written by the
student as opposed to copied from an AI assis-
tant. This would ensure that gaps aren’t hidden,
but would require a longitudinal view of the stu-
dent’s ability. Also, we must be able to ensure that
the LLM’s recommendations are based on actual
details of the student and the text rather than be-
ing general predictions with high priors or based
on hallucinations. Furthermore, rather than sim-
plifying original lesson materials (Mallinson et al.,
2022; Omelianchuk et al., 2021), we should invest
in using LLMs to generate or retrieve materials
or scaffolding that help to advance the students’
learning rate.
7
What We Need
Our overall aim is to combat both the stultification
of NLP as a mere evaluation optimization endeavor
and to dispel fears that LLMs and generative AI
will shut down the field. As an old saying goes,
frequent moves make a tree die but a person pros-
perous. Just as NLP researchers in the 1980s had
to learn about machine learning and then embrace
it as a core technique in the field, so we now must
explore and embrace LLMs and their capabilities.
Machine learning did not ‘solve’ the challenges
of NLP: it did not produce an engine that could
learn languages, translate, answer questions, create
poetry, and do all the things a child can do. Some
people claim that LLMs can do all this, and more.
But we are in the first flush of engagement, and
have not yet have time to discover all their short-
comings.
Central is the challenge of scale. No child needs
to read or hear more than half the internet’s En-
glish text in order to use language. What reasoning
and sensory capabilities do people have that LLMs
lack? How can NLP research evolve to model
and encompass those? We urgently need global
infrastructures to dramatically scale up computing
resources, because the open-source models still
cannot achieve performance comparable to GPT
variants (Gudibande et al., 2023). But we also ur-
gently need deeper thinking about the foundational
conceptual models driving our field.
During this unique period when NLP researchers
feel uncertain regarding which research problems
to pursue, we as a community need a collective
effort to systematically change and refine our pa-
per review system and academic success measure-
ments, in order to establish a more inclusive re-
search environment and encourage researchers (par-
ticularly those in junior positions) to explore long-
term, high-risk topics that are crucial for the en-
tire field. The new challenges also require us to
be more open-minded to close collaboration with
researchers from other fields, including social sci-
ence, natural science, computer vision, knowledge
representation and reasoning, and human-computer
interaction.
Limitations
In this paper we describe some new or under-
explored NLP research directions that remain
dissertation-worthy. We propose a wider and ex-
citing version of NLP that encourages people to
focus on a wider range of more challenging and
difficult problems with exciting potential impacts
for social good. These problems may not always
admit of easy datasets and pure machine learning
solutions. Our list is not meant to be exhaustive,
and we choose these directions as examples. It is
up to NLP researchers to uncover the problems and
develop novel solutions.
Ethical Considerations
The research areas listed in this document are a few
of the main areas ripe for exploration; additional
ones exist. We do not intend for our proposed posi-
tions to be forcefully pedagogical. We encourage
diverse and deeper investigation of worthy research
areas. Within these proposed directions, we ac-
knowledge that some require access to users’ per-
sonal information (e.g. chatbot personalization in
Section 6.1), and some applications might have
high impact on users (e.g. using models to assess a
student’s grasp of knowledge for targeted education

in Section 6.3). The use of LLMs for creative work
has also led to concerns about copyright and regu-
lations over whether AI can be credited as authors.
We do not support the use of LLMs for screening or
resource allocation purposes without safeguarding
measures. Even for lower risk use cases, we opt
for more research on the robustness, transparency,
and fairness of systems. Finally, we must evalu-
ate the compliance of prompting LLMs with laws
and regulations. For instance in education applica-
tions, if we require information about the student,
we must refer to laws such as FERPA/DPA/GDPR,
especially in an online learning setting.
Acknowledgements
This work is based upon work supported by
U.S. DARPA KAIROS Program No.
FA8750-
19-2-1004, U.S. DARPA CCU Program No.
HR001122C0034, U.S. DARPA ECOLE Pro-
gram No. #HR00112390060, U.S. DARPA ITM
FA8650-23-C-7316, U.S. DARPA SemaFor Pro-
gram No. HR001120C0123 and U.S. DARPA IN-
CAS Program No. HR001121C0165. The opin-
ions, views and conclusions contained herein are
those of the authors and should not be interpreted as
necessarily representing the official policies, either
expressed or implied, of DARPA, or the U.S. Gov-
ernment. The U.S. Government is authorized to
reproduce and distribute reprints for governmental
purposes notwithstanding any copyright annotation
therein.
References
Michael Ahn, Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Yevgen
Chebotar, Omar Cortes, Byron David, Chelsea Finn,
Chuyuan Fu, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Karol Haus-
man, et al. 2022. Do as i can, not as i say: Ground-
ing language in robotic affordances. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2204.01691.
Ekin Akyürek, Dale Schuurmans, Jacob Andreas,
Tengyu Ma, and Denny Zhou. 2022. What learn-
ing algorithm is in-context learning? investigations
with linear models. ArXiv preprint, abs/2211.15661.
Cristian-Paul Bara, Sky CH-Wang, and Joyce Chai.
2021. MindCraft: Theory of mind modeling for situ-
ated dialogue in collaborative tasks. In Proceedings
of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Nat-
ural Language Processing, pages 1112–1125, Online
and Punta Cana, Dominican Republic. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
William Berrios, Gautam Mittal, Tristan Thrush,
Douwe Kiela, and Amanpreet Singh. 2023.
To-
wards Language Models That Can See: Computer
Vision Through the LENS of Natural Language.
ArXiv:2306.16410 [cs].
Chandra Bhagavatula, Ronan Le Bras, Chaitanya
Malaviya, Keisuke Sakaguchi, Ari Holtzman, Han-
nah Rashkin, Doug Downey, Wen-tau Yih, and Yejin
Choi. 2020. Abductive commonsense reasoning. In
8th International Conference on Learning Represen-
tations, ICLR 2020, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, April
26-30, 2020.
Su Lin Blodgett, Solon Barocas, Hal Daumé III, and
Hanna Wallach. 2020.
Language (technology) is
power: A critical survey of “bias” in NLP. In Pro-
ceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics, pages 5454–
5476, Online. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
George S Boolos, John P Burgess, and Richard C Jef-
frey. 2002. Computability and logic. Cambridge
university press.
Sebastian Borgeaud, Arthur Mensch, Jordan Hoff-
mann, Trevor Cai, Eliza Rutherford, Katie Milli-
can, George Bm Van Den Driessche, Jean-Baptiste
Lespiau, Bogdan Damoc, Aidan Clark, Diego
De Las Casas, Aurelia Guy, Jacob Menick, Roman
Ring, Tom Hennigan, Saffron Huang, Loren Mag-
giore, Chris Jones, Albin Cassirer, Andy Brock,
Michela Paganini, Geoffrey Irving, Oriol Vinyals,
Simon Osindero, Karen Simonyan, Jack Rae, Erich
Elsen, and Laurent Sifre. 2022. Improving language
models by retrieving from trillions of tokens. In
Proceedings of the 39th International Conference
on Machine Learning, volume 162 of Proceedings
of Machine Learning Research, pages 2206–2240.
PMLR.
Faeze Brahman and Snigdha Chaturvedi. 2020. Mod-
eling protagonist emotions for emotion-aware story-
telling. In Proceedings of the 2020 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP), pages 5277–5294, Online. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Tom B. Brown, Benjamin Mann, Nick Ryder, Melanie
Subbiah, Jared Kaplan, Prafulla Dhariwal, Arvind
Neelakantan, Pranav Shyam, Girish Sastry, Amanda
Askell, Sandhini Agarwal, Ariel Herbert-Voss,
Gretchen Krueger, Tom Henighan, Rewon Child,
Aditya Ramesh, Daniel M. Ziegler, Jeffrey Wu,
Clemens Winter, Christopher Hesse, Mark Chen, Eric
Sigler, Mateusz Litwin, Scott Gray, Benjamin Chess,
Jack Clark, Christopher Berner, Sam McCandlish,
Alec Radford, Ilya Sutskever, and Dario Amodei.
2020. Language models are few-shot learners. In Ad-
vances in Neural Information Processing Systems 33:
Annual Conference on Neural Information Process-
ing Systems 2020, NeurIPS 2020, December 6-12,
2020, virtual.
Sébastien Bubeck, Varun Chandrasekaran, Ronen El-
dan, Johannes Gehrke, Eric Horvitz, Ece Kamar, Pe-
ter Lee, Yin Tat Lee, Yuanzhi Li, Scott Lundberg,

Harsha Nori, Hamid Palangi, Marco Tulio Ribeiro,
and Yi Zhang. 2023. Sparks of artificial general in-
telligence: Early experiments with gpt-4.
Tuhin Chakrabarty, Vishakh Padmakumar, Faeze Brah-
man, and Smaranda Muresan. 2024. Creativity sup-
port in the age of large language models: An empiri-
cal study involving emerging writers. In CHI.
Tuhin Chakrabarty, Vishakh Padmakumar, and He He.
2022. Help me write a poem: Instruction tuning as a
vehicle for collaborative poetry writing. In Proceed-
ings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods
in Natural Language Processing, pages 6848–6863,
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Hou Pong Chan, Qi Zeng, and Heng Ji. 2023. Inter-
pretable automatic fine-grained inconsistency detec-
tion in text summarization. In Proc. The 61st Annual
Meeting of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics (ACL2023) Findings.
Anthony Chen, Panupong Pasupat, Sameer Singh, Hon-
grae Lee, and Kelvin Guu. 2023a. Purr: Efficiently
editing language model hallucinations by denois-
ing language model corruptions.
ArXiv preprint,
abs/2305.14908.
Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming
Yuan, Henrique Ponde de Oliveira Pinto, Jared Ka-
plan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph,
Greg Brockman, et al. 2021. Evaluating large lan-
guage models trained on code.
ArXiv preprint,
abs/2107.03374.
Wenhu Chen, Xueguang Ma, Xinyi Wang, and
William W. Cohen. 2022.
Program of thoughts
prompting: Disentangling computation from reason-
ing for numerical reasoning tasks. In arXiv, volume
abs/2211.12588.
Yangyi Chen, Hongcheng Gao, Ganqu Cui, Lifan Yuan,
Dehan Kong, Hanlu Wu, Ning Shi, Bo Yuan, Longtao
Huang, Hui Xue, Zhiyuan Liu, Maosong Sun, and
Heng Ji. 2023b. From adversarial arms race to model-
centric evaluation: Motivating a unified automatic
robustness evaluation framework. In Proc. The 61st
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (ACL2023).
Feng Cheng, Xizi Wang, Jie Lei, David Crandall, Mohit
Bansal, and Gedas Bertasius. 2023. Vindlu: A recipe
for effective video-and-language pretraining. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 10739–10750.
Aakanksha Chowdhery, Sharan Narang, Jacob Devlin,
Maarten Bosma, Gaurav Mishra, Adam Roberts,
Paul Barham, Hyung Won Chung, Charles Sutton,
Sebastian Gehrmann, et al. 2022. Palm: Scaling
language modeling with pathways. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2204.02311.
Karl Cobbe, Vineet Kosaraju, Mohammad Bavarian,
Mark Chen, Heewoo Jun, Lukasz Kaiser, Matthias
Plappert, Jerry Tworek, Jacob Hilton, Reiichiro
Nakano, Christopher Hesse, and John Schulman.
2021. Training verifiers to solve math word prob-
lems. ArXiv preprint, abs/2110.14168.
Roi Cohen, Mor Geva, Jonathan Berant, and Amir
Globerson. 2023. Crawling the internal knowledge-
base
of
language
models.
ArXiv
preprint,
abs/2301.12810.
Damai Dai, Li Dong, Yaru Hao, Zhifang Sui, Baobao
Chang, and Furu Wei. 2021.
Knowledge neu-
rons in pretrained transformers.
ArXiv preprint,
abs/2104.08696.
Nicola De Cao, Wilker Aziz, and Ivan Titov. 2021. Edit-
ing factual knowledge in language models. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2021 Conference on Empirical Meth-
ods in Natural Language Processing, pages 6491–
6506.
Shizhe Diao, Pengcheng Wang, Yong Lin, and Tong
Zhang. 2023.
Active prompting with chain-of-
thought for large language models.
Danny Driess, Fei Xia, Mehdi SM Sajjadi, Corey Lynch,
Aakanksha Chowdhery, Brian Ichter, Ayzaan Wahid,
Jonathan Tompson, Quan Vuong, Tianhe Yu, et al.
2023. Palm-e: An embodied multimodal language
model. ArXiv preprint, abs/2303.03378.
Dheeru Dua, Yizhong Wang, Pradeep Dasigi, Gabriel
Stanovsky, Sameer Singh, and Matt Gardner. 2019.
DROP: A reading comprehension benchmark requir-
ing discrete reasoning over paragraphs. In Proceed-
ings of the 2019 Conference of the North American
Chapter of the Association for Computational Lin-
guistics: Human Language Technologies, Volume 1
(Long and Short Papers), pages 2368–2378, Min-
neapolis, Minnesota. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Carl Edwards, Tuan Lai, Kevin Ros, Garrett Honke,
Kyunghyun Cho, and Heng Ji. 2022. Translation
between molecules and natural language. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Meth-
ods in Natural Language Processing, pages 375–413,
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Carl Edwards, ChengXiang Zhai, and Heng Ji. 2021.
Text2Mol: Cross-modal molecule retrieval with nat-
ural language queries. In Proceedings of the 2021
Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural Lan-
guage Processing, pages 595–607, Online and Punta
Cana, Dominican Republic. Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics.
Michael Eickenberg, Alexandre Gramfort, Gaël Varo-
quaux, and Bertrand Thirion. 2017. Seeing it all:
Convolutional network layers map the function of the
human visual system. NeuroImage, 152:184–194.

Guhao Feng, Yuntian Gu, Bohang Zhang, Haotian Ye,
Di He, and Liwei Wang. 2023a. Towards revealing
the mystery behind chain of thought: a theoretical
perspective. ArXiv preprint, abs/2305.15408.
Weixi Feng, Wanrong Zhu, Tsu-jui Fu, Varun Jampani,
Arjun Akula, Xuehai He, Sugato Basu, Xin Eric
Wang, and William Yang Wang. 2023b.
Layout-
gpt:
Compositional visual planning and genera-
tion with large language models.
arXiv preprint
arXiv:2305.15393.
James Fiacco, Shiyan Jiang, David Adamson, and Car-
olyn Rosé. 2022. Toward automatic discourse pars-
ing of student writing motivated by neural interpreta-
tion. In Proceedings of the 17th Workshop on Inno-
vative Use of NLP for Building Educational Applica-
tions (BEA 2022), pages 204–215, Seattle, Washing-
ton. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Tommaso Fornaciari, Alexandra Uma, Silviu Paun, Bar-
bara Plank, Dirk Hovy, and Massimo Poesio. 2021.
Beyond black & white: Leveraging annotator dis-
agreement via soft-label multi-task learning. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North Amer-
ican Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pages
2591–2597, Online. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Jinlan Fu, See-Kiong Ng, Zhengbao Jiang, and Pengfei
Liu. 2023. Gptscore: Evaluate as you desire. arXiv
preprint arXiv:2302.04166.
Yi Fung, Christopher Thomas, Revanth Gangi Reddy,
Sandeep Polisetty, Heng Ji, Shih-Fu Chang, Kathleen
McKeown, Mohit Bansal, and Avi Sil. 2021. InfoSur-
geon: Cross-media fine-grained information consis-
tency checking for fake news detection. In Proceed-
ings of the 59th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics and the 11th International
Joint Conference on Natural Language Processing
(Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 1683–1698, Online.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Yi R. Fung, Tuhin Chakraborty, Hao Guo, Owen Ram-
bow, Smaranda Muresan, and Heng Ji. 2023. Norm-
sage: Multi-lingual multi-cultural norm discovery
from conversations on-the-fly. In Proceedings of the
2023 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing.
Tianyu Gao, Howard Yen, Jiatong Yu, and Danqi Chen.
2023a. Enabling large language models to generate
text with citations. ArXiv preprint, abs/2305.14627.
Zhifan Gao, Yifeng Guo, Jiajing Zhang, Tieyong Zeng,
and Guang Yang. 2023b. Hierarchical perception ad-
versarial learning framework for compressed sensing
mri. IEEE Transactions on Medical Imaging.
Katy Ilonka Gero, Tao Long, and Lydia Chilton. 2023.
Social dynamics of ai support in creative writing. In
Proceedings of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human
Factors in Computing Systems.
Mor Geva, Jasmijn Bastings, Katja Filippova, and Amir
Globerson. 2023. Dissecting recall of factual asso-
ciations in auto-regressive language models. ArXiv
preprint, abs/2304.14767.
Mor Geva, Yoav Goldberg, and Jonathan Berant. 2019.
Are we modeling the task or the annotator? an inves-
tigation of annotator bias in natural language under-
standing datasets. In Proceedings of the 2019 Confer-
ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-
cessing and the 9th International Joint Conference
on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP),
pages 1161–1166, Hong Kong, China. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Mor Geva, Daniel Khashabi, Elad Segal, Tushar Khot,
Dan Roth, and Jonathan Berant. 2021. Did aristotle
use a laptop? a question answering benchmark with
implicit reasoning strategies. Transactions of the
Association for Computational Linguistics, 9:346–
361.
Behrooz Ghorbani, Orhan Firat, Markus Freitag, Ankur
Bapna, Maxim Krikun, Xavier Garcia, Ciprian
Chelba, and Colin Cherry. 2021. Scaling laws for
neural machine translation. In International Confer-
ence on Learning Representations.
Linyuan Gong, Di He, Zhuohan Li, Tao Qin, Liwei
Wang, and Tie-Yan Liu. 2019. Efficient training of
bert by progressively stacking. In International Con-
ference on Machine Learning.
Thomas L Griffiths and Mark Steyvers. 2004. Find-
ing scientific topics. Proceedings of the National
academy of Sciences, 101(suppl_1):5228–5235.
Arnav Gudibande, Eric Wallace, Charlie Snell, Xinyang
Geng, Hao Liu, Pieter Abbeel, Sergey Levine, and
Dawn Song. 2023. The false promise of imitating
proprietary llms. ArXiv preprint, abs/2305.15717.
William H. Guss, Mario Ynocente Castro, Sam De-
vlin, Brandon Houghton, Noboru Sean Kuno, Criss-
man Loomis, Stephanie Milani, Sharada Mohanty,
Keisuke Nakata, Ruslan Salakhutdinov, John Schul-
man, Shinya Shiroshita, Nicholay Topin, Avinash
Ummadisingu, and Oriol Vinyals. 2021. The minerl
2020 competition on sample efficient reinforcement
learning using human priors. In NeurIPS2021.
Kelvin Guu, Kenton Lee, Zora Tung, Panupong Pasupat,
and Ming-Wei Chang. 2020. Retrieval augmented
language model pre-training. In Proceedings of the
37th International Conference on Machine Learning,
ICML 2020, 13-18 July 2020, Virtual Event, volume
119 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Research,
pages 3929–3938. PMLR.
Brett A. Halperin and Stephanie M. Lukin. 2023. En-
visioning narrative intelligence: A creative visual
storytelling anthology. In Proceedings of the 2023
CHI Conference on Human Factors in Computing
Systems.

Chi Han, Ziqi Wang, Han Zhao, and Heng Ji. 2023a.
In-context learning of large language models ex-
plained as kernel regression.
ArXiv preprint,
abs/2305.12766.
Chi Han, Jialiang Xu, Manling Li, Yi R. Fung, Chenkai
Sun, Tarek Abdelzaher, and Heng Ji. 2023b. Lm-
switch:
Lightweight language model condition-
ing in word embedding space.
ArXiv preprint,
abs/2305.12798.
Peter Hase, Mona Diab, Asli Celikyilmaz, Xian Li, Zor-
nitsa Kozareva, Veselin Stoyanov, Mohit Bansal, and
Srinivasan Iyer. 2023. Methods for measuring, up-
dating, and visualizing factual beliefs in language
models. In Proceedings of the 17th Conference of
the European Chapter of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics, pages 2714–2731, Dubrovnik,
Croatia. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Hangfeng He, Hongming Zhang, and Dan Roth. 2023.
Rethinking with retrieval: Faithful large language
model inference. ArXiv preprint, abs/2301.00303.
Dan Hendrycks, Collin Burns, Steven Basart, Andy Zou,
Mantas Mazeika, Dawn Song, and Jacob Steinhardt.
2021. Measuring massive multitask language under-
standing. In International Conference on Learning
Representations.
William R Hersh and Ravi Teja Bhupatiraju. 2003. Trec
genomics track overview. In TREC, volume 2003,
pages 14–23.
Shaul Hochstein and Merav Ahissar. 2002. View from
the top: Hierarchies and reverse hierarchies in the
visual system. Neuron, 36(5):791–804.
Jordan Hoffmann, Sebastian Borgeaud, Arthur Mensch,
Elena Buchatskaya, Trevor Cai, Eliza Rutherford,
Diego de Las Casas, Lisa Anne Hendricks, Johannes
Welbl, Aidan Clark, Tom Hennigan, Eric Noland,
Katie Millican, George van den Driessche, Bogdan
Damoc, Aurelia Guy, Simon Osindero, Karen Si-
monyan, Erich Elsen, Jack W. Rae, Oriol Vinyals,
and Laurent Sifre. 2022. Training compute-optimal
large language models.
Tom Hope, Doug Downey, Oren Etzioni, and Weld.
2022. A computational inflection for scientific dis-
covery. ArXiv preprint, abs/2205.02007.
Mohammad Javad Hosseini, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, Oren
Etzioni, and Nate Kushman. 2014. Learning to solve
arithmetic word problems with verb categorization.
In Proceedings of the 2014 Conference on Empirical
Methods in Natural Language Processing (EMNLP),
pages 523–533, Doha, Qatar. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics.
Kung-Hsiang Huang, Hou Pong Chan, and Heng Ji.
2023.
Zero-shot faithful factual error correction.
ArXiv preprint, abs/2305.07982.
Oana Ignat, Zhijing Jin, Artem Abzaliev, Laura Biester,
Santiago Castro, Naihao Deng, Xinyi Gao, Aylin Gu-
nal, Jacky He, Ashkan Kazemi, Muhammad Khalifa,
Namho Koh, Andrew Lee, Siyang Liu, Do June Min,
and Shink Mori. 2023. A phd student’s perspective
on research in nlp in the era of very large language
models. ArXiv preprint, abs/2305.12544.
Knud Illeris. 2018. A comprehensive understanding
of human learning. In Contemporary theories of
learning, pages 1–14. Routledge.
Andrew Ilyas, Sung Min Park, Logan Engstrom, Guil-
laume Leclerc, and Aleksander Madry. 2022. Data-
models: Understanding predictions with data and
data with predictions. In Proceedings of the 39th
International Conference on Machine Learning, vol-
ume 162 of Proceedings of Machine Learning Re-
search, pages 9525–9587. PMLR.
Gautier Izacard, Patrick Lewis, Maria Lomeli, Lucas
Hosseini, Fabio Petroni, Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-
Yu, Armand Joulin, Sebastian Riedel, and Edouard
Grave. 2022. Atlas: Few-shot learning with retrieval
augmented language models. ArXiv preprint, 2208.
Peter Jarvis. 2006. Towards a comprehensive theory of
human learning, volume 1. Psychology Press.
Hui Jiang. 2023. A latent space theory for emergent
abilities in large language models. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2304.09960.
Yunfan Jiang, Agrim Gupta, Zichen Zhang, Guanzhi
Wang, Yongqiang Dou, Yanjun Chen, Li Fei-Fei, An-
ima Anandkumar, Yuke Zhu, and Linxi Fan. 2023.
Vima: Robot manipulation with multimodal prompts.
ICML2023.
Amita Kamath, Jack Hessel, and Kai-Wei Chang. 2023.
What’s up with vision-language models? investigat-
ing their struggle to understand spatial relations. In
EMNLP 2023.
Jun Kato and Masataka Goto. 2023. Lyric app frame-
work: A web-based framework for developing inter-
active lyric-driven musical applications. In Proceed-
ings of the 2023 CHI Conference on Human Factors
in Computing Systems.
Urvashi Khandelwal, Omer Levy, Dan Jurafsky, Luke
Zettlemoyer, and Mike Lewis. 2020. Generalization
through memorization: Nearest neighbor language
models. In 8th International Conference on Learning
Representations, ICLR 2020, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia,
April 26-30, 2020. OpenReview.net.
Douwe Kiela, Max Bartolo, Yixin Nie, Divyansh
Kaushik, Atticus Geiger, Zhengxuan Wu, Bertie Vid-
gen, Grusha Prasad, Amanpreet Singh, Pratik Ring-
shia, Zhiyi Ma, Tristan Thrush, Sebastian Riedel,
Zeerak Waseem, Pontus Stenetorp, Robin Jia, Mohit
Bansal, Christopher Potts, and Adina Williams. 2021.
Dynabench: Rethinking benchmarking in NLP. In
Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North

American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies,
pages 4110–4124, Online. Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics.
Rik Koncel-Kedziorski, Subhro Roy, Aida Amini, Nate
Kushman, and Hannaneh Hajishirzi. 2016. MAWPS:
A math word problem repository. In Proceedings of
the 2016 Conference of the North American Chapter
of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Hu-
man Language Technologies, pages 1152–1157, San
Diego, California. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Bolin Lai, Hongxin Zhang, Miao Liu, Aryan Pariani,
Fiona Ryan, Wenqi Jia, Shirley Anugrah Hayati,
James M. Rehg, and Diyi Yang. 2022. Werewolf
among us: A multimodal dataset for modeling per-
suasion behaviors in social deduction games. ArXiv
preprint, abs/2212.08279.
Tuan M. Lai, Giuseppe Castellucci, Saar Kuzi, Heng
Ji, and Oleg Rokhlenko. 2023a. External knowledge
acquisition for end-to-end document-oriented dialog
systems. In Proc. The 17th Conference of the Euro-
pean Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (EACL2023).
Tuan Manh Lai, ChengXiang Zhai, and Heng Ji. 2023b.
Keblm: Knowledge-enhanced biomedical language
models. Journal of Biomedical Informatics.
Alon Lavie and Abhaya Agarwal. 2007. METEOR: An
automatic metric for MT evaluation with high levels
of correlation with human judgments. In Proceed-
ings of the Second Workshop on Statistical Machine
Translation, pages 228–231, Prague, Czech Republic.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Jangwon Lee. 2017. A survey of robot learning from
demonstrations for human-robot collaboration. arXiv
preprint arXiv:1710.08789.
Nayeon Lee, Wei Ping, Peng Xu, Mostofa Patwary, Pas-
cale N Fung, Mohammad Shoeybi, and Bryan Catan-
zaro. 2022. Factuality enhanced language models
for open-ended text generation. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 35:34586–34599.
Patrick S. H. Lewis, Ethan Perez, Aleksandra Pik-
tus, Fabio Petroni, Vladimir Karpukhin, Naman
Goyal, Heinrich Küttler, Mike Lewis, Wen-tau Yih,
Tim Rocktäschel, Sebastian Riedel, and Douwe
Kiela. 2020.
Retrieval-augmented generation for
knowledge-intensive NLP tasks. In Advances in Neu-
ral Information Processing Systems 33: Annual Con-
ference on Neural Information Processing Systems
2020, NeurIPS 2020, December 6-12, 2020, virtual.
Bo Li, Gexiang Fang, Yang Yang, Quansen Wang, Wei
Ye, Wen Zhao, and Shikun Zhang. 2023a. Evaluating
chatgpt’s information extraction capabilities: An as-
sessment of performance, explainability, calibration,
and faithfulness. ArXiv preprint, abs/2304.11633.
Jiao Li, Yueping Sun, Robin J Johnson, Daniela Sci-
aky, Chih-Hsuan Wei, Robert Leaman, Allan Peter
Davis, Carolyn J Mattingly, Thomas C Wiegers, and
Zhiyong Lu. 2016. Biocreative v cdr task corpus:
a resource for chemical disease relation extraction.
Database, 2016.
Junnan Li, Dongxu Li, Silvio Savarese, and Steven Hoi.
2023b. Blip-2: Bootstrapping language-image pre-
training with frozen image encoders and large lan-
guage models. ArXiv preprint, abs/2301.12597.
Manling Li, Tengfei Ma, Mo Yu, Lingfei Wu, Tian Gao,
Heng Ji, and Kathleen McKeown. 2021. Timeline
summarization based on event graph compression via
time-aware optimal transport. In Proceedings of the
2021 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing, pages 6443–6456.
Manling Li, Ruochen Xu, Shuohang Wang, Luowei
Zhou, Xudong Lin, Chenguang Zhu, Michael Zeng,
Heng Ji, and Shih-Fu Chang. 2022a.
Clip-event:
Connecting text and images with event structures. In
Proc. Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition (CVPR2022).
Manling Li, Lingyu Zhang, Heng Ji, and Richard J.
Radke. 2019. Keep meeting summaries on topic:
Abstractive multi-modal meeting summarization. In
Proceedings of the 57th Annual Meeting of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics, pages 2190–
2196, Florence, Italy. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Sha Li, Mahdi Namazifar, Di Jin, Mohit Bansal, Heng
Ji, Yang Liu, and Dilek Hakkani-Tur. 2022b. En-
hancing knowledge selection for grounded dialogues
via document semantic graphs. In Proc. The 2022
Conference of the North American Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics - Human
Language Technologies (NAACL-HLT2022).
Sha Li, Ruining Zhao, Manling Li, Heng Ji, Chris
Callison-Burch, and Jiawei Han. 2023c.
Open-
domain hierarchical event schema induction by incre-
mental prompting and verification. In Proc. The 61st
Annual Meeting of the Association for Computational
Linguistics (ACL2023).
Percy Liang, Rishi Bommasani, Tony Lee, Dimitris
Tsipras, Dilara Soylu, Michihiro Yasunaga, Yian
Zhang, Deepak Narayanan, Yuhuai Wu, Ananya Ku-
mar, et al. 2022. Holistic evaluation of language
models. ArXiv preprint, abs/2211.09110.
Chin-Yew Lin. 2004. ROUGE: A package for auto-
matic evaluation of summaries. In Text Summariza-
tion Branches Out, pages 74–81, Barcelona, Spain.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Xudong Lin, Simran Tiwari, Shiyuan Huang, Manling
Li, Mike Zheng Shou, Heng Ji, and Shih-Fu Chang.
2023. Towards fast adaptation of pretrained con-
trastive models for multi-channel video-language re-
trieval. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference

on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages
14846–14855.
Wang Ling, Dani Yogatama, Chris Dyer, and Phil Blun-
som. 2017. Program induction by rationale genera-
tion: Learning to solve and explain algebraic word
problems. In Proceedings of the 55th Annual Meet-
ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 158–167, Vancouver,
Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Chia-Wei Liu, Ryan Lowe, Iulian Serban, Mike Nose-
worthy, Laurent Charlin, and Joelle Pineau. 2016.
How NOT to evaluate your dialogue system: An
empirical study of unsupervised evaluation metrics
for dialogue response generation. In Proceedings of
the 2016 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natu-
ral Language Processing, pages 2122–2132, Austin,
Texas. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Lihui Liu, Boxin Du, Yi R. Fung, Heng Ji, Jiejun Xu,
and Hanghang Tong. 2021a. Kompare: A knowledge
graph comparative reasoning system. In Proceedings
of the 27th ACM SIGKDD Conference on Knowl-
edge Discovery & Data Mining, page 3308–3318.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Pengfei Liu, Jinlan Fu, Yang Xiao, Weizhe Yuan,
Shuaichen Chang, Junqi Dai, Yixin Liu, Zihuiwen Ye,
and Graham Neubig. 2021b. ExplainaBoard: An ex-
plainable leaderboard for NLP. In Proceedings of the
59th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics and the 11th International Joint
Conference on Natural Language Processing: System
Demonstrations, pages 280–289, Online. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Ruibo Liu, Jason Wei, Shixiang Shane Gu, Te-Yen Wu,
Soroush Vosoughi, Claire Cui, Denny Zhou, and An-
drew M Dai. 2022. Mind’s eye: Grounded language
model reasoning through simulation. In The Eleventh
International Conference on Learning Representa-
tions.
Shengchao Liu, Yutao Zhu, Jiarui Lu, Zhao Xu,
Weili Nie, Anthony Gitter, Chaowei Xiao, Jian
Tang, Hongyu Guo, and Anima Anandkumar. 2023a.
A text-guided protein design framework.
ArXiv
preprint, abs/2302.04611.
Yang Liu, Dan Iter, Yichong Xu, Shuohang Wang,
Ruochen Xu, and Chenguang Zhu. 2023b. Gpte-
val: Nlg evaluation using gpt-4 with better human
alignment. arXiv preprint arXiv:2303.16634.
Robert Logan IV, Ivana Balazevic, Eric Wallace, Fabio
Petroni, Sameer Singh, and Sebastian Riedel. 2022.
Cutting down on prompts and parameters: Simple
few-shot learning with language models. In Find-
ings of the Association for Computational Linguis-
tics: ACL 2022, pages 2824–2835, Dublin, Ireland.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Ryan Lowe, Michael Noseworthy, Iulian Vlad Serban,
Nicolas Angelard-Gontier, Yoshua Bengio, and Joelle
Pineau. 2017. Towards an automatic Turing test:
Learning to evaluate dialogue responses. In Proceed-
ings of the 55th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics (Volume 1: Long Papers),
pages 1116–1126, Vancouver, Canada. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Artur Lugmayr, Erkki Sutinen, Jarkko Suhonen,
Carolina Islas Sedano,
Helmut Hlavacs,
and
Calkin Suero Montero. 2017. Serious storytelling
– a first definition and review. Multimedia Tools and
Applications, 76:15707–15733.
Jonathan Mallinson, Jakub Adamek, Eric Malmi, and
Aliaksei Severyn. 2022. EdiT5: Semi-autoregressive
text editing with t5 warm-start. In Findings of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: EMNLP
2022, pages 2126–2138, Abu Dhabi, United Arab
Emirates. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Sandeep Mathias and Pushpak Bhattacharyya. 2020.
Can neural networks automatically score essay traits?
In Proceedings of the Fifteenth Workshop on Inno-
vative Use of NLP for Building Educational Appli-
cations, pages 85–91, Seattle, WA, USA →Online.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Michael McCloskey and Neal J Cohen. 1989. Catas-
trophic interference in connectionist networks: The
sequential learning problem. In Psychology of learn-
ing and motivation, volume 24, pages 109–165. Else-
vier.
Kevin Meng, David Bau, Alex J Andonian, and Yonatan
Belinkov. 2022a. Locating and editing factual asso-
ciations in GPT. In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems.
Kevin Meng, Arnab Sen Sharma, Alex Andonian,
Yonatan Belinkov, and David Bau. 2022b. Mass-
editing memory in a transformer. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2210.07229.
Shen-yun Miao, Chao-Chun Liang, and Keh-Yih Su.
2020. A diverse corpus for evaluating and developing
English math word problem solvers. In Proceedings
of the 58th Annual Meeting of the Association for
Computational Linguistics, pages 975–984, Online.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Sewon Min, Xinxi Lyu, Ari Holtzman, Mikel Artetxe,
Mike Lewis, Hannaneh Hajishirzi, and Luke Zettle-
moyer. 2022. Rethinking the role of demonstrations:
What makes in-context learning work? In Proceed-
ings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Methods in
Natural Language Processing, pages 11048–11064,
Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Eric Mitchell, Charles Lin, Antoine Bosselut, Chelsea
Finn, and Christopher D. Manning. 2022a.
Fast
model editing at scale. In The Tenth International
Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2022,
Virtual Event, April 25-29, 2022.

Eric Mitchell, Charles Lin, Antoine Bosselut, Christo-
pher D Manning, and Chelsea Finn. 2022b. Memory-
based model editing at scale. In International Con-
ference on Machine Learning, pages 15817–15831.
PMLR.
Liliane Momeni, Mathilde Caron, Arsha Nagrani, An-
drew Zisserman, and Cordelia Schmid. 2023. Verbs
in action: Improving verb understanding in video-
language models. ArXiv preprint, abs/2304.06708.
Yusuke Mori, Hiroaki Yamane, Ryohei Shimizu, and
Tatsuya Harada. 2022. Plug-and-play controller for
story completion: A pilot study toward emotion-
aware story writing assistance. In Proceedings of the
First Workshop on Intelligent and Interactive Writing
Assistants (In2Writing 2022), pages 46–57, Dublin,
Ireland. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Kostiantyn Omelianchuk, Vipul Raheja, and Oleksandr
Skurzhanskyi. 2021. Text Simplification by Tagging.
In Proceedings of the 16th Workshop on Innovative
Use of NLP for Building Educational Applications,
pages 11–25, Online. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Ali Omrani, Alireza Salkhordeh Ziabari, Charles Yu,
Preni Golazizian, Brendan Kennedy, Mohammad
Atari, Heng Ji, and Morteza Dehghani. 2023. Social-
group-agnostic bias mitigation via the stereotype con-
tent model. In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meet-
ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 4123–4139, Toronto,
Canada. Association for Computational Linguistics.
OpenAI. 2023. Gpt-4 technical report. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2303.08774.
Long Ouyang, Jeffrey Wu, Xu Jiang, Diogo Almeida,
Carroll Wainwright, Pamela Mishkin, Chong Zhang,
Sandhini Agarwal, Katarina Slama, Alex Ray, et al.
2022. Training language models to follow instruc-
tions with human feedback.
Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 35:27730–27744.
Aishwarya Padmakumar, Jesse Thomason, Ayush Shri-
vastava, Patrick Lange, Anjali Narayan-Chen, Span-
dana Gella, Robinson Piramuthu, Gokhan Tur, and
Dilek Hakkani-Tur. 2022. TEACh: Task-driven Em-
bodied Agents that Chat. In Proceedings of the AAAI
Conference on Artificial Intelligence, volume 36,
pages 2017–2025.
Kishore Papineni, Salim Roukos, Todd Ward, and Wei-
Jing Zhu. 2002. Bleu: a method for automatic evalu-
ation of machine translation. In Proceedings of the
40th Annual Meeting of the Association for Compu-
tational Linguistics, pages 311–318, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania, USA. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Joon Sung Park, Joseph C. O’Brien, Carrie J. Cai,
Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and Michael S.
Bernstein. 2023.
Generative agents: Interactive
simulacra of human behavior.
ArXiv preprint,
abs/2304.03442.
Arkil Patel, Satwik Bhattamishra, and Navin Goyal.
2021. Are NLP models really able to solve simple
math word problems? In Proceedings of the 2021
Conference of the North American Chapter of the
Association for Computational Linguistics: Human
Language Technologies, pages 2080–2094, Online.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Debjit Paul, Mete Ismayilzada, Maxime Peyrard, Beat-
riz Borges, Antoine Bosselut, Robert West, and Boi
Faltings. 2023. Refiner: Reasoning feedback on in-
termediate representations.
Bo Peng, Eric Alcaide, Quentin Anthony, Alon Al-
balak, Samuel Arcadinho, Huanqi Cao, Xin Cheng,
Michael Chung, Matteo Grella, Kranthi Kiran GV,
et al. 2023. Rwkv: Reinventing rnns for the trans-
former era. ArXiv preprint, abs/2305.13048.
Fabio Petroni, Patrick Lewis, Aleksandra Piktus, Tim
Rocktäschel, Yuxiang Wu, Alexander H. Miller, and
Sebastian Riedel. 2020. How context affects lan-
guage models’ factual predictions. In Automated
Knowledge Base Construction.
Fabio Petroni, Tim Rocktäschel, Sebastian Riedel,
Patrick Lewis, Anton Bakhtin, Yuxiang Wu, and
Alexander Miller. 2019. Language models as knowl-
edge bases?
In Proceedings of the 2019 Confer-
ence on Empirical Methods in Natural Language Pro-
cessing and the 9th International Joint Conference
on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-IJCNLP),
pages 2463–2473, Hong Kong, China. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Pavel G Polishchuk, Timur I Madzhidov, and Alexandre
Varnek. 2013. Estimation of the size of drug-like
chemical space based on gdb-17 data. Journal of
computer-aided molecular design, 27:675–679.
Cheng Qian, Chi Han, Yi R. Fung, Yujia Qin, Zhiyuan
Liu, and Heng Ji. 2023. Creator: Tool creation for
disentangling abstract and concrete reasoning of large
language models.
Yujia Qin, Shengding Hu, Yankai Lin, Weize Chen,
Ning Ding, Ganqu Cui, Zheni Zeng, Yufei Huang,
Chaojun Xiao, Chi Han, Yi Ren Fung, Yusheng Su,
Huadong Wang, Cheng Qian, Runchu Tian, Kunlun
Zhu, Shihao Liang, Xingyu Shen, Bokai Xu, Zhen
Zhang, Yining Ye, Bowen Li, Ziwei Tang, Jing Yi,
Yuzhang Zhu, Zhenning Dai, Lan Yan, Xin Cong,
Yaxi Lu, Weilin Zhao, Yuxiang Huang, Junxi Yan,
Xu Han, Xian Sun, Dahai Li, Jason Phang, Cheng
Yang, Tongshuang Wu, Heng Ji, Zhiyuan Liu, and
Maosong Sun. 2023. Tool learning with foundation
models.
Alec Radford, Jong Wook Kim, Chris Hallacy, Aditya
Ramesh, Gabriel Goh, Sandhini Agarwal, Girish Sas-
try, Amanda Askell, Pamela Mishkin, Jack Clark,
Gretchen Krueger, and Ilya Sutskever. 2021. Learn-
ing transferable visual models from natural language
supervision. In International Conference on Machine
Learning.

Roger Ratcliff. 1990. Connectionist models of recog-
nition memory: constraints imposed by learning
and forgetting functions.
Psychological review,
97(2):285.
Victor Sanh, Albert Webson, Colin Raffel, Stephen
Bach, Lintang Sutawika, Zaid Alyafeai, Antoine
Chaffin, Arnaud Stiegler, Arun Raja, Manan Dey,
M Saiful Bari, Canwen Xu, Urmish Thakker,
Shanya Sharma Sharma, Eliza Szczechla, Taewoon
Kim, Gunjan Chhablani, Nihal Nayak, Debajyoti
Datta, Jonathan Chang, Mike Tian-Jian Jiang, Han
Wang, Matteo Manica, Sheng Shen, Zheng Xin Yong,
Harshit Pandey, Rachel Bawden, Thomas Wang, Tr-
ishala Neeraj, Jos Rozen, Abheesht Sharma, An-
drea Santilli, Thibault Fevry, Jason Alan Fries, Ryan
Teehan, Teven Le Scao, Stella Biderman, Leo Gao,
Thomas Wolf, and Alexander M Rush. 2022. Multi-
task prompted training enables zero-shot task gener-
alization. In International Conference on Learning
Representations.
Maarten Sap, Swabha Swayamdipta, Laura Vianna,
Xuhui Zhou, Yejin Choi, and Noah A. Smith. 2022.
Annotators with attitudes: How annotator beliefs
and identities bias toxic language detection. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2022 Conference of the North Amer-
ican Chapter of the Association for Computational
Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pages
5884–5906, Seattle, United States. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Zhengbao Jiang, Fabio
Petroni, Patrick Lewis, Gautier Izacard, Qingfei You,
Christoforos Nalmpantis, Edouard Grave, and Sebas-
tian Riedel. 2022. Peer: A collaborative language
model. ArXiv preprint, abs/2208.11663.
Thibault Sellam, Dipanjan Das, and Ankur Parikh. 2020.
BLEURT: Learning robust metrics for text genera-
tion. In Proceedings of the 58th Annual Meeting of
the Association for Computational Linguistics, pages
7881–7892, Online. Association for Computational
Linguistics.
Paul Hongsuck Seo, Arsha Nagrani, Anurag Arnab, and
Cordelia Schmid. 2022. End-to-end generative pre-
training for multimodal video captioning. In Pro-
ceedings of the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer
Vision and Pattern Recognition, pages 17959–17968.
Sheng Shen, Le Hou, Yan-Quan Zhou, Nan Du, S. Long-
pre, Jason Wei, Hyung Won Chung, Barret Zoph,
William Fedus, Xinyun Chen, Tu Vu, Yuexin Wu,
Wuyang Chen, Albert Webson, Yunxuan Li, Vincent
Zhao, Hongkun Yu, Kurt Keutzer, Trevor Darrell, and
Denny Zhou. 2023. Flan-moe: Scaling instruction-
finetuned language models with sparse mixture of
experts. ArXiv, abs/2305.14705.
Taylor Shin, Yasaman Razeghi, Robert L. Logan IV, Eric
Wallace, and Sameer Singh. 2020. AutoPrompt: Elic-
iting Knowledge from Language Models with Auto-
matically Generated Prompts. In Proceedings of the
2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 4222–4235,
Online. Association for Computational Linguistics.
Mohit Shridhar, Jesse Thomason, Daniel Gordon,
Yonatan Bisk, Winson Han, Roozbeh Mottaghi, Luke
Zettlemoyer, and Dieter Fox. 2020. ALFRED: A
benchmark for interpreting grounded instructions for
everyday tasks. In 2020 IEEE/CVF Conference on
Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, CVPR
2020, Seattle, WA, USA, June 13-19, 2020, pages
10737–10746. IEEE.
David Silver, Thomas Hubert, Julian Schrittwieser, Ioan-
nis Antonoglou, Matthew Lai, Arthur Guez, Marc
Lanctot, Laurent Sifre, Dharshan Kumaran, Thore
Graepel, et al. 2018. A general reinforcement learn-
ing algorithm that masters chess, shogi, and go
through self-play. Science, 362(6419):1140–1144.
Bing Su, Dazhao Du, Zhao Yang, Yujie Zhou, Jiang-
meng Li, Anyi Rao, Hao Sun, Zhiwu Lu, and Ji-
Rong Wen. 2022. A molecular multimodal founda-
tion model associating molecule graphs with natural
language. ArXiv preprint, abs/2209.05481.
Chenkai Sun, Jinning Li, Yi R. Fung, Hou P. Chan,
Tarek Abdelzaher, Chengxiang Zhai, and Heng Ji.
2023. Decoding the silent majority: Inducing belief
augmented social graph with large language model
for response forecasting. The 2023 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing
(EMNLP).
Tianxiang Sun, Junliang He, Xipeng Qiu, and Xuan-
jing Huang. 2022. BERTScore is unfair: On social
bias in language model-based metrics for text gen-
eration. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
pages 3726–3739, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Shunya Takano and Osamu Ichikawa. 2022. Automatic
scoring of short answers using justification cues es-
timated by BERT. In Proceedings of the 17th Work-
shop on Innovative Use of NLP for Building Educa-
tional Applications (BEA 2022), pages 8–13, Seattle,
Washington. Association for Computational Linguis-
tics.
Alon Talmor, Jonathan Herzig, Nicholas Lourie, and
Jonathan Berant. 2019. CommonsenseQA: A ques-
tion answering challenge targeting commonsense
knowledge. In Proceedings of the 2019 Conference
of the North American Chapter of the Association for
Computational Linguistics: Human Language Tech-
nologies, Volume 1 (Long and Short Papers), pages
4149–4158, Minneapolis, Minnesota. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Hao Tan and Mohit Bansal. 2020. Vokenization: Im-
proving language understanding with contextualized,
visual-grounded supervision. In Proceedings of the
2020 Conference on Empirical Methods in Natural
Language Processing (EMNLP), pages 2066–2080.

Ross Taylor, Marcin Kardas, Guillem Cucurull, Thomas
Scialom, Anthony Hartshorn, Elvis Saravia, Andrew
Poulton, Viktor Kerkez, and Robert Stojnic. 2022.
Galactica: A large language model for science. ArXiv
preprint, abs/2211.09085.
Miles Turpin, Julian Michael, Ethan Perez, and
Samuel R Bowman. 2023. Language models don’t
always say what they think: Unfaithful explana-
tions in chain-of-thought prompting. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2305.04388.
Jack Urbanek, Angela Fan, Siddharth Karamcheti,
Saachi Jain, Samuel Humeau, Emily Dinan, Tim
Rocktäschel, Douwe Kiela, Arthur Szlam, and Jason
Weston. 2019. Learning to speak and act in a fantasy
text adventure game. In Proceedings of the 2019 Con-
ference on Empirical Methods in Natural Language
Processing and the 9th International Joint Confer-
ence on Natural Language Processing (EMNLP-
IJCNLP), pages 673–683, Hong Kong, China. As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics.
Johannes von Oswald, Eyvind Niklasson, Ettore Ran-
dazzo, João Sacramento, Alexander Mordvintsev, An-
drey Zhmoginov, and Max Vladymyrov. 2022. Trans-
formers learn in-context by gradient descent. ArXiv
preprint, abs/2212.07677.
Alex Wang, Yada Pruksachatkun, Nikita Nangia, Aman-
preet Singh, Julian Michael, Felix Hill, Omer Levy,
and Samuel R. Bowman. 2019. Superglue: A stickier
benchmark for general-purpose language understand-
ing systems.
In Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems 32: Annual Conference on Neu-
ral Information Processing Systems 2019, NeurIPS
2019, December 8-14, 2019, Vancouver, BC, Canada,
pages 3261–3275.
Alex Wang, Amanpreet Singh, Julian Michael, Felix
Hill, Omer Levy, and Samuel Bowman. 2018. GLUE:
A multi-task benchmark and analysis platform for nat-
ural language understanding. In Proceedings of the
2018 EMNLP Workshop BlackboxNLP: Analyzing
and Interpreting Neural Networks for NLP, pages
353–355, Brussels, Belgium. Association for Com-
putational Linguistics.
Qingyun Wang, Manling Li, Xuan Wang, Nikolaus
Parulian, Guangxing Han, Jiawei Ma, Jingxuan Tu,
Ying Lin, Ranran Haoran Zhang, Weili Liu, Aab-
has Chauhan, Yingjun Guan, Bangzheng Li, Ruisong
Li, Xiangchen Song, Yi Fung, Heng Ji, Jiawei Han,
Shih-Fu Chang, James Pustejovsky, Jasmine Rah,
David Liem, Ahmed ELsayed, Martha Palmer, Clare
Voss, Cynthia Schneider, and Boyan Onyshkevych.
2021. COVID-19 literature knowledge graph con-
struction and drug repurposing report generation. In
Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies:
Demonstrations, pages 66–77, Online. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Xingyao Wang,
Sha Li,
and Heng Ji. 2023a.
Code4struct: Code generation for few-shot event
structure prediction. In Proc. The 61st Annual Meet-
ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(ACL2023).
Xingyao Wang, Hao Peng, Reyhaneh Jabbarvand, and
Heng Ji. 2023b. Leti: Learning to generate from
textual interactions. ArXiv preprint, abs/2305.10314.
Xingyao Wang, Zihan Wang, Jiateng Liu, Yangyi
Chen, Lifan Yuan, Hao Peng, and Heng Ji. 2023c.
Mint:
Evaluating llms in multi-turn interaction
with tools and language feedback. arXiv preprint
arXiv:2309.10691.
Xinyi Wang, Wanrong Zhu, and William Yang Wang.
2023d.
Large language models are implicitly
topic models: Explaining and finding good demon-
strations for in-context learning.
ArXiv preprint,
abs/2301.11916.
Xuezhi Wang, Jason Wei, Dale Schuurmans, Quoc
Le, Ed Chi, Sharan Narang, Aakanksha Chowdhery,
and Denny Zhou. 2023e. Self-consistency improves
chain of thought reasoning in language models.
Yizhong Wang, Swaroop Mishra, Pegah Alipoormo-
labashi, Yeganeh Kordi, Amirreza Mirzaei, Atharva
Naik, Arjun Ashok, Arut Selvan Dhanasekaran,
Anjana Arunkumar, David Stap, Eshaan Pathak,
Giannis Karamanolakis, Haizhi Lai, Ishan Puro-
hit, Ishani Mondal, Jacob Anderson, Kirby Kuznia,
Krima Doshi, Kuntal Kumar Pal, Maitreya Patel,
Mehrad Moradshahi, Mihir Parmar, Mirali Purohit,
Neeraj Varshney, Phani Rohitha Kaza, Pulkit Verma,
Ravsehaj Singh Puri, Rushang Karia, Savan Doshi,
Shailaja Keyur Sampat, Siddhartha Mishra, Sujan
Reddy A, Sumanta Patro, Tanay Dixit, and Xudong
Shen. 2022a. Super-NaturalInstructions: General-
ization via declarative instructions on 1600+ NLP
tasks. In Proceedings of the 2022 Conference on
Empirical Methods in Natural Language Processing,
pages 5085–5109, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Zhenhailong Wang, Ansel Blume, Sha Li, Genglin Liu,
Jaemin Cho, Zineng Tang, Mohit Bansal, and Heng
Ji. 2023f. Paxion: Patching action knowledge in
video-language foundation models. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2305.10683.
Zhenhailong Wang, Manling Li, Ruochen Xu, Lu-
owei Zhou, Jie Lei, Xudong Lin, Shuohang Wang,
Ziyi Yang, Chenguang Zhu, Derek Hoiem, Shih-Fu
Chang, Mohit Bansal, and Heng Ji. 2022b. Language
models with image descriptors are strong few-shot
video-language learners. In Proc. The Thirty-Sixth
Annual Conference on Neural Information Process-
ing Systems (NeurIPS2022).
Zhenhailong Wang, Manling Li, Ruochen Xu, Luowei
Zhou, Jie Lei, Xudong Lin, Shuohang Wang, Ziyi
Yang, Chenguang Zhu, Derek Hoiem, et al. 2022c.
Language models with image descriptors are strong

few-shot video-language learners. Advances in Neu-
ral Information Processing Systems, 35:8483–8497.
Ziqi Wang, Chi Han, and Heng Ji. 2023g. Understand-
ing the effect of data augmentation on knowledge
distillation. In arXiv, volume abs/2305.12565.
Jason Wei, Maarten Bosma, Vincent Zhao, Kelvin Guu,
Adams Wei Yu, Brian Lester, Nan Du, Andrew M
Dai, and Quoc V Le. 2021. Finetuned language mod-
els are zero-shot learners. In International Confer-
ence on Learning Representations.
Jason Wei, Yi Tay, Rishi Bommasani, Colin Raffel,
Barret Zoph, Sebastian Borgeaud, Dani Yogatama,
Maarten Bosma, Denny Zhou, Donald Metzler, Ed H.
Chi, Tatsunori Hashimoto, Oriol Vinyals, Percy
Liang, Jeff Dean, and William Fedus. 2022. Emer-
gent abilities of large language models. In Transac-
tions on Machine Learning Research.
Jason Wei, Xuezhi Wang, Dale Schuurmans, Maarten
Bosma, Fei Xia, Ed H Chi, Quoc V Le, Denny Zhou,
et al. Chain-of-thought prompting elicits reasoning
in large language models. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems.
Jerry W. Wei, Jason Wei, Yi Tay, Dustin Tran, Al-
bert Webson, Yifeng Lu, Xinyun Chen, Hanxiao
Liu, Da Huang, Denny Zhou, and Tengyu Ma. 2023.
Larger language models do in-context learning dif-
ferently. ArXiv preprint, abs/2303.03846.
Orion Weller, Marc Marone, Nathaniel Weir, Dawn
Lawrie, Daniel Khashabi, and Benjamin Van Durme.
2023. " according to..." prompting language mod-
els improves quoting from pre-training data. ArXiv
preprint, abs/2305.13252.
Haoyang Wen, Ying Lin, Tuan Lai, Xiaoman Pan, Sha
Li, Xudong Lin, Ben Zhou, Manling Li, Haoyu
Wang, Hongming Zhang, Xiaodong Yu, Alexander
Dong, Zhenhailong Wang, Yi Fung, Piyush Mishra,
Qing Lyu, Dídac Surís, Brian Chen, Susan Windisch
Brown, Martha Palmer, Chris Callison-Burch, Carl
Vondrick, Jiawei Han, Dan Roth, Shih-Fu Chang,
and Heng Ji. 2021. RESIN: A dockerized schema-
guided cross-document cross-lingual cross-media in-
formation extraction and event tracking system. In
Proceedings of the 2021 Conference of the North
American Chapter of the Association for Computa-
tional Linguistics: Human Language Technologies:
Demonstrations, pages 133–143, Online. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Yotam Wolf, Noam Wies, Yoav Levine, and Amnon
Shashua. 2023. Fundamental limitations of align-
ment in large language models.
ArXiv preprint,
abs/2304.11082.
Wenhao Wu, Wei Li, Xinyan Xiao, Jiachen Liu, Sujian
Li, and Yajuan Lyu. 2023. WeCheck: Strong factual
consistency checker via weakly supervised learning.
In Proceedings of the 61st Annual Meeting of the
Association for Computational Linguistics (Volume
1: Long Papers), pages 307–321, Toronto, Canada.
Association for Computational Linguistics.
Xueqing Wu, Kung-Hsiang Huang, Yi Fung, and Heng
Ji. 2022. Cross-document misinformation detection
based on event graph reasoning. In Proceedings of
the 2022 Conference of the North American Chapter
of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Hu-
man Language Technologies, pages 543–558, Seattle,
United States. Association for Computational Lin-
guistics.
Sang Michael Xie, Aditi Raghunathan, Percy Liang,
and Tengyu Ma. An explanation of in-context learn-
ing as implicit bayesian inference. In International
Conference on Learning Representations.
Tong Xie, Yuwei Wa, Wei Huang, Yufei Zhou, Yix-
uan Liu, Qingyuan Linghu, Shaozhou Wang, Chunyu
Kit, Clara Grazian, and Bram Hoex. 2023. Large
language models as master key: Unlocking the se-
crets of materials science with gpt. ArXiv preprint,
abs/2304.02213.
Tianci Xue, Ziqi Wang, Chi Han, Zhenhailong Wang,
Pengfei Yu, and Heng Ji. 2023. Combat hallucination
in arithmetic reasoning with reverse chain-of-thought.
In arxiv.
Antoine Yang, Arsha Nagrani, Paul Hongsuck Seo, An-
toine Miech, Jordi Pont-Tuset, Ivan Laptev, Josef
Sivic, and Cordelia Schmid. 2023a. Vid2seq: Large-
scale pretraining of a visual language model for dense
video captioning. In Proceedings of the IEEE/CVF
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recog-
nition, pages 10714–10726.
Ke Yang, Charles Yu, Yi R. Fung, Manling Li, and Heng
Ji. 2023b. Adept: A debiasing prompt framework.
Proceedings of the AAAI Conference on Artificial
Intelligence, 37(9):10780–10788.
Charles Yu, Sullam Jeoung, Anish Kasi, Pengfei Yu, and
Heng Ji. 2023a. Unlearning bias in language models
by partitioning gradients. In Findings of the Asso-
ciation for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2023,
pages 6032–6048, Toronto, Canada. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Pengfei Yu and Heng Ji. 2023. Self information up-
date for large language models through mitigating
exposure bias. ArXiv preprint, abs/2305.18582.
Weihao Yu, Zihang Jiang, Yanfei Dong, and Jiashi Feng.
2020. Reclor: A reading comprehension dataset re-
quiring logical reasoning. In 8th International Con-
ference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2020,
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, April 26-30, 2020.
Wenhao Yu, Zhihan Zhang, Zhenwen Liang, Meng
Jiang, and Ashish Sabharwal. 2023b. Improving lan-
guage models via plug-and-play retrieval feedback.
ArXiv preprint, abs/2305.14002.

Zichun Yu, Chenyan Xiong, Shi Yu, and Zhiyuan Liu.
2023c. Augmentation-adapted retriever improves
generalization of language models as generic plug-in.
ArXiv preprint, abs/2305.17331.
Lifan Yuan, Yangyi Chen, Xingyao Wang, Yi R. Fung,
Hao Peng, and Heng Ji. 2023.
Craft: Customiz-
ing llms by creating and retrieving from specialized
toolsets.
Weizhe Yuan, Graham Neubig, and Pengfei Liu. 2021.
Bartscore: Evaluating generated text as text gener-
ation. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 34:27263–27277.
Rowan Zellers, Jiasen Lu, Ximing Lu, Youngjae Yu,
Yanpeng Zhao, Mohammadreza Salehi, Aditya Kusu-
pati, Jack Hessel, Ali Farhadi, and Yejin Choi. 2022.
Merlot reserve: Neural script knowledge through
vision and language and sound. In Proceedings of
the IEEE/CVF Conference on Computer Vision and
Pattern Recognition, pages 16375–16387.
Rowan Zellers, Ximing Lu, Jack Hessel, Youngjae Yu,
Jae Sung Park, Jize Cao, Ali Farhadi, and Yejin Choi.
2021. Merlot: Multimodal neural script knowledge
models. Advances in Neural Information Processing
Systems, 34:23634–23651.
Zheni Zeng, Yuan Yao, Zhiyuan Liu, and Maosong Sun.
2022. A deep-learning system bridging molecule
structure and biomedical text with comprehension
comparable to human professionals. Nature commu-
nications, 13(1):862.
Shuangfei Zhai, Walter Talbott, Nitish Srivastava, Chen
Huang, Hanlin Goh, Ruixiang Zhang, and Josh
Susskind. 2021. An attention free transformer. ArXiv
preprint, abs/2105.14103.
Tianyi Zhang, Varsha Kishore, Felix Wu, Kilian Q.
Weinberger, and Yoav Artzi. 2020. Bertscore: Evalu-
ating text generation with BERT. In 8th International
Conference on Learning Representations, ICLR 2020,
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, April 26-30, 2020.
Xuan Zhang, Limei Wang, Jacob Helwig, Youzhi Luo,
Cong Fu, Yaochen Xie, Meng Liu, Yuchao Lin, Zhao
Xu, Keqiang Yan, et al. 2023. Artificial intelligence
for science in quantum, atomistic, and continuum
systems. arXiv preprint arXiv:2307.08423.
Lianmin Zheng, Wei-Lin Chiang, Ying Sheng, Siyuan
Zhuang, Zhanghao Wu, Yonghao Zhuang, Zi Lin,
Zhuohan Li, Dacheng Li, Eric. P Xing, Hao Zhang,
Joseph E. Gonzalez, and Ion Stoica. 2023. Judg-
ing llm-as-a-judge with mt-bench and chatbot arena.
ArXiv preprint, abs/2105.14103.
Ming Zhong, Yang Liu, Da Yin, Yuning Mao, Yizhu
Jiao, Pengfei Liu, Chenguang Zhu, Heng Ji, and
Jiawei Han. 2022.
Towards a unified multi-
dimensional evaluator for text generation. In Pro-
ceedings of the 2022 Conference on Empirical Meth-
ods in Natural Language Processing, pages 2023–
2038, Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. Association
for Computational Linguistics.
Wanjun Zhong, Ruixiang Cui, Yiduo Guo, Yaobo Liang,
Shuai Lu, Yanlin Wang, Amin Saied, Weizhu Chen,
and Nan Duan. 2023. Agieval: A human-centric
benchmark for evaluating foundation models. ArXiv
preprint, abs/2304.06364.
Mingyang Zhou, Yi Fung, Long Chen, Christopher
Thomas, Heng Ji, and Shih-Fu Chang. 2023. En-
hanced chart understanding via visual language pre-
training on plot table pairs. In Findings of the As-
sociation for Computational Linguistics: ACL 2023,
pages 1314–1326, Toronto, Canada. Association for
Computational Linguistics.
Chen Zhu, Ankit Singh Rawat, Manzil Zaheer, Srinadh
Bhojanapalli, Daliang Li, Felix Yu, and Sanjiv Kumar.
2020. Modifying memories in transformer models.
ArXiv preprint, abs/2012.00363.
Deyao Zhu, Jun Chen, Xiaoqian Shen, Xiang Li, and
Mohamed Elhoseiny. 2023. Minigpt-4: Enhancing
vision-language understanding with advanced large
language models. ArXiv preprint, abs/2304.10592.
Caleb Ziems, Minzhi Li, Anthony Zhang, and Diyi
Yang. 2022. Inducing positive perspectives with text
reframing. In Proceedings of the 60th Annual Meet-
ing of the Association for Computational Linguistics
(Volume 1: Long Papers), pages 3682–3700, Dublin,
Ireland. Association for Computational Linguistics.
