Natural Language Processing 4 All (NLP4All): A New Online Platform
for Teaching and Learning NLP Concepts
Rebekah Brita Baglini
Aarhus University
Interacting Minds Center
rbkh@cc.au.dk
Hermes Arthur Hjorth
Aarhus University
ScienceAtHome
arthur@mgmt.au.dk
Abstract
Natural Language Processing offers new in-
sights into language data across almost all dis-
ciplines and domains, and allows us to cor-
roborate and/or challenge existing knowledge.
The primary hurdles to widening participation
in and use of these new research tools are, ﬁrst,
a lack of coding skills in students across K-16,
and in the population at large, and second, a
lack of knowledge of how NLP-methods can
be used to answer questions of disciplinary in-
terest outside of linguistics and/or computer
science. To broaden participation in NLP and
improve NLP-literacy, we introduced a new
tool web-based tool called Natural Language
Processing 4 All (NLP4All).
The intended
purpose of NLP4All is to help teachers facili-
tate learning with and about NLP, by providing
easy-to-use interfaces to NLP-methods, data,
and analyses, making it possible for non- and
novice-programmers to learn NLP concepts in-
teractively.
1
Introduction
An emerging body of work has explored ways of
lowering the threshold for people to work with AI
and ML-technologies, speciﬁcally in educational
contexts. Much of this work has focused on making
AI “explainable” (Gunning, 2017) by visualizing
the underlying math, or visualizing how machines
make decisions. However, NLP has been largely
absent from these efforts so far. To address this gap,
we developed a new educational tool called Natu-
ralLanguageProcessing4All (NLP4All), which al-
lows teachers to interactively introduce applica-
tions of statistical NLP to students without any
coding skills.
NLP4All1 is a web-based interface for teaching
and learning NLP concepts, designed with ﬂex-
ibility and accessibility in mind. It is an open
1A demo version of NLP4All can be accessed here:
http://86.52.121.12:5000/, pre-loaded with the data and analy-
sis described in this paper.
source application built in Python on top of the
Flask framework, and can therefore be easily ex-
tended with existing Python-based NLP- and ML-
packages. The ﬁrst prototype of NLP4All is de-
signed to work with tweets only, but we are cur-
rently expanding to be able to work with any kind
of text, bringing NLP tools to a wider array of
disciplines and student populations.
We ﬁrst present the design of the tool and its
current capabilities, and then brieﬂy describe two
different real-world settings in which we have used
NLP4All.
2
Design
NLP4All is an interactive tool which is designed to
supplement classroom modules introducing NLP or
machine learning concepts for non-specialists. The
platform facilitates hands-on experimentation with
NLP applications using real data, without requiring
students to do any programming.
NLP4All provides two different user types:
teachers and students. Whereas teachers can see
data from all students and can create new projects,
students’ activities are more limited in the system.
The system is organized into user groups,
projects, and analyses. To better describe how
the system, we will brieﬂy outline how each of
these work.
2.1
User Groups
User groups provide an easy way to organize
groups of students. A group will consist of stu-
dents who are doing the same activities, and simply
act as an easy way to add students to projects. They
will typically consist of students in one class. User
groups can be created by a teacher and associated
with a unique sign-up link to be distributed to the
intended recipient group.
arXiv:2105.13704v1  [cs.CL]  28 May 2021

2.2
Projects
Projects in NLP4All offer teachers a way to orga-
nize a lesson by selecting some texts of interest,
and tying them to a user group. A project consists
of a title, a description, a user group (of students),
and a set corpora that will be included in the project.
Teachers create projects with associated datasets
prior to classroom sessions; they can either choose
to use several pre-loaded datasets (Tweets from the
accounts of different American and Danish politi-
cians or political parties) or upload their own texts
in .csv or .json format.
Figure 1: Teacher view displaying Projects interface.
2.3
Analyses
Inside a project, both teachers and students can cre-
ate a new analysis. An analysis is NLP4All’s name
for an untrained model and all data associated with
training it. Students can create a new analysis if
they think that they have trained their old model
poorly and want to start from scratch. Students can
only create personal analyses - i.e. analyses that
are unique to their account, and not shared among
other members of the user group. Teachers, in con-
trast, can create analyses that are shared between
all members of a user group.
There are two different ways in which an analy-
sis can be shared (Fig. 2): the teacher can choose
to just share the texts that students hand-label, or
they can choose to share an underlying model. For
the former case, the teacher can specify a number
of texts from each category, and NLP4All will cre-
ate a mini-corpus of just those texts for students
to work with. For the latter case, students work
with the whole corpus of the texts present in the
project, but all train the same underlying model as
they hand label texts.
NLP4All also supports text annotation, but we
do not discuss this functionality here.
Figure 2: New Analysis interface.
3
Example: Teaching text classiﬁcation
with NLP4All
The initial version of NLP4All features interactive
tools for a curriculum module on text classiﬁca-
tion with Naïve Bayes and Logistic Regression
models. In this section, we walk through an exam-
ple of how NLP4All could be used in the classroom
to introduce Naïve Bayes text classiﬁcation using
a corpus of posts from the Twitter accounts of Joe
Biden and Bernie Sanders collected in the run-up
to the 2020 Democratic Primaries.
Upon logging in, students see a landing page
which lists all projects that the student is currently
part of, as determined by the instructor (Fig. 3).
Figure 3: Landing page for students.
3.1
Hand labeling: The Tweet View
The current implementation of NLP4All has a spe-
cial view called the Tweet View, where students

hand label Twitter data, as seen in Fig. 4. At the
bottom of the page, it shows the tweet currently be-
ing labeled. Students label each tweet by dragging
the Twitter bird to whichever side of the circle rep-
resents the category that they think the it belongs to.
For example, by dragging the bird to the green part
of the circle, a student would label the tweet in Fig.
4 as having been written by Bernie Sanders. All
Tweets in this dataset were pre-processed so that
mentions, hashtags, and links were replaced with
mention, #hashtag, and http://link, respectively.
Figure 4: The Tweet View interface.
In the top right corner Fig. 4, the Tweet View
also shows the model’s best estimate of who wrote
the tweet, based on the data that it has been trained
on so far. For the current tweet, the model estimates
that Biden wrote the tweet with around .63 and that
Bernie wrote it with the remaining .37. By making
the classiﬁcation explicit to students, we hope to
achieve two different goals. First, we want students
to understand how each word contributes to the
overall classiﬁcation. Second, we want students
to critically reﬂect on whether they agree with the
model’s assessment. It is, of course, important
when working with ML to not always trust your
model. By giving students a clear idea of how
the model reaches its conclusions, we hope that
students can learn not only to be skeptical of ML
models in a general sense, but that they can begin to
understand why particular features or combinations
of features may confuse a model, and through this
get a better sense of what can go wrong when ML
makes classiﬁcations. Finally, at the top of the
page, students are shown how many more tweets
this student needs to hand label before they are
done with all tweets.
4
Using label and word statistics to
facilitate learning
Clicking the Label & Word Statistics link at the
top of the page gives an overview of all tweets
that students in this shared analysis have labeled,
how many labeled them correctly, and how many
labeled them incorrectly.
The purpose of this view is for the teacher to be
able to discuss with students which tweets are hard
to classify (i.e. the ones that many hand label incor-
rectly), which ones are easy, to foster discussion
in the classroom what we know about these data.
The screenshot below shows us this list, sorted by
correct-% in ascending order. Here, we see that 22
out of 23 students mislabeled the tweet with the
text, “FLORIDA: Today is the LAST DAY to reg-
ister for the Democratic primary. You must register
as a Democrat to vote in the March 17th primary
at http://link Let’s win this together! http://link”.
This is not surprising, given how generic this tweet
is given the choice between two democratic candi-
dates competing in the same primaries.
Figure 5: Label & Word Statistics view. After students
participate in hand labeling data, this view can be used
to facilitate discussion.
Sorting the list in descending order of correct-%,
we can see the tweets that all or most students la-
beled correctly. For instance, the tweet “We will
not defeat Donald Trump with a candidate who,
instead of holding the crooks on Wall Street ac-
countable, blamed the end of racist policies such
as redlining for the ﬁnancial crisis.” was seemingly
easily recognizable as a Bernie-tweet (23/23 stu-
dents labeled it correctly.) Similarly, “We need a
leader who will be ready on day one to pick up the
pieces of Donald Trump’s broken foreign policy
and repair the damage he has caused around the
world. http://link” was easily recognizable by 23

students as having been written by the Biden team.
(The wrong guess was from the teacher demonstrat-
ing the system to students.)
Figure 6: Label & Word Statistics view, sorted by %
correctly labeled.
The See all words link brings up a table of all
words present in tweets that have been labeled so
far. This list shows how many times each word
has appeared in the set of labeled tweets, and to
which extent each word predicts each of the cat-
egories in the project, here Joe Biden and Bernie
Sanders. For instructional purposes, this list can be
used to discuss a variety of questions. For example,
in Fig. 6, the list is sorted by how many times a
word appears. Since the texts have not been ﬁl-
tered, this can act as a point of entry to a discussion
of why only some words are meaningful when it
comes to distinguishing between different classes.
The teacher may choose this moment to introduce
students to the concept of stop words, or even to
the notion of statistical power laws behind word
frequency (Zipf’s law).
4.1
Model training and evaluation
NLP4All also lets students create their own Naïve
Bayes models by specifying a set search terms to
train their model on. Asterisks work as wildcards,
and can be placed anywhere in a word, including
at the front or back. Importantly, for the purpose of
reﬂection and classroom discussions, students are
prompted to also state a reason why they think this
would be a good word feature for distinguishing
between the categories of text in the project. In
the screenshot in Fig. 8 we see how one student
has added four different terms and their reasons for
inclusion.
By clicking Run Model button at the bottom,
Figure 7: Word statistics, sorted by frequency.
Figure 8: Student-deﬁned word features
NLP4All ﬁnds all words that match the search
terms (including wild cards) and trains a Naïve
Bayes model based on them. It returns the screen
shown in the example screenshot in Fig. 9.
Here, the user is shown a table with information
on each word found from their set of search terms:
which category the model predicts based on the
training set, how accurately that word was for pre-
dicting tweets in the test set, and how many tweets
contain the word (‘targeted’) in the test set.
In this particular case, we see that the word ‘bil-
lionaire’ is the most predictive term: based on the
training set, the model predicts that a tweet con-
taining ‘billionaire’ is written by Bernie Sanders,
and this was the case in every single one of the

Figure 9: Feedback on model performance
54 tweets containing this word in the test set. Fi-
nally, each search term earns a score. This provides
a “gamiﬁed” element of NLP4All that can be ig-
nored, but that has been found to be motivating and
fun to many students. Students can iterative im-
prove their models by adding or removing search
terms, and running these analyses until they are
happy with the terms they have found.
NLP4All users can also view confusion matrices
for any of their trained models, as illustrated in Fig.
10.
5
NLP4All in the classroom: Case studies
5.1
Introducing text classiﬁcation to MA
students in the Humanities
Recent revisions to the national study regulations
for humanities students in Denmark place an em-
phasis on digitization and digital literacy. As a
result, study programs in Humanities and Social
Sciences are adding courses like Text Analytics,
Computational Linguistics, and Data Science to
their standard curriculum. This poses a challenge,
however, as students in these programs typically
have little background or interest in math, statis-
tics, or programming and some lack even basic
computer skills.
Working with a faculty member in at a ma-
jor Danish university, we developed a classroom
module on Classiﬁcation as part of a introductory
Figure 10: Viewing a confusion matrix
course on Computational Linguistics. The students
in the class were second semester masters students
in Linguistics and Cognitive Semiotics. Only one
out of 22 students had any background in program-
ming, and none had taken a specialization in math
or science in high school.
Student prepared for the two-week module by
reading an introductory textbook chapter on Docu-
ment Classiﬁcation (Dickinson et al., 2012) cover-
ing the Naive Bayes algorithm and completing the
exercises at the end of the chapter. These concep-
tual and mathematical foundations were reinforced
and built upon in two one-hour classroom lectures,
which also introduced the contrast between gener-
ative and discriminative models and classiﬁcation
with logistic regression. In the second two hours of
each three-hour class meeting, the class collectively
participated in training and evaluating classiﬁca-
tion models with NLP4All using the Biden/Bernie
Twitter data described above. The activities were
broken into time blocks with discussion following
each stage.
In a post-classroom evaluation of students
(n=20), 100% agreed that ‘the in-class exercises
using NLP4All were effective for learning’ and that
the exercises ‘improved my understanding of text
classiﬁcation’. In additional comments, several stu-
dents reported that they enjoyed the gamiﬁed and
competitive aspect of NLP4All, while others men-
tioned that they liked the opportunity to work with
real-world social media data.

5.2
Facilitating social studies discussion in a
Danish high school
We tested NLP4All in a Social Studies high school
classroom. In collaboration with a social studies
teacher, we developed a 6-hour learning unit on lan-
guage, ideology and political parties. The unit was
designed to address one of learning goals of our na-
tional learning standards, specifying that students
should learn about the different policy positions of
political parties (we have 13 in our national par-
liament.) In other words, the purpose was not to
teach NLP, but to teach with NLP, and to offer NLP-
methods as a way of analyzing larger amounts of
text than is otherwise possible.
24 2nd year (sophomore) Danish high school stu-
dents participated, with roughly equal numbers of
girls and boys. In a survey sent out to students prior
to our test, none of these students self-reported as
having any programming experience, and 20 out of
24 reported no or low interest in computer science
or machine learning. All had self-selected into “A-
level” Social Studies, a 3-year elective class. About
one third of students had immigrant backgrounds,
slightly above the national average.
The teacher and students used NLP4All to dis-
cuss tweets from pairs of Danish political parties.
First, students had to label tweets and a model to
tell a socialist and a nationalist party apart. Then,
students did the same with the same socialist party,
and a libertarian party.
We cannot report on more concrete ﬁndings or
analyses of learning data at present, as these re-
sults are currently under review at another venue.
However, in evaluations the students reported en-
joying being able to provide concrete evidence for
their analyses. To them, purely qualitative analy-
ses sometimes feel ﬂuffy, but by showing that their
analyses were backed up by hundreds or thousands
of tweets made them feel more comfortable making
claims during classroom discussions.
6
Comparison to Prior Work
We have found two systems that are similar to
NLP4All in certain ways, though also different in
others. GATE (Cunningham, 2002) is a combined
Java API and graphical interface that makes it easy
to create NLP pipelines without writing all code
from scratch. While it was originally made for re-
searchers, it has also been used in teaching contexts
(Bontcheva et al., 2002) because it makes it easy
for novice programmers to implement more sophis-
ticated NLP methods than they could do on their
own. However, presumably because GATE was
made for researchers, it is not made for classroom
contexts, and does not offer interfaces on data that
would be useful for teachers during the teaching sit-
uation. Light et al. (2005) present a web interface
that lets novices process text with common models
and methods like NLTK’s PoS tagger and grammar
parser. The web interface lets novices combine
these models when processing text and visualizes
output. However, similar to GATE, this interface
does not provide views on data that are relevant to
the teaching context. Additionally, the modules are
black boxed to the students and do not provide any
information on how the models work, how they are
trained, or how they make predictions.
7
Conclusion
At present, NLP4All provides support for teaching
the following technical topics, without requiring
any programming on the part of teachers or stu-
dents:
• Classiﬁcation algorithms
– Naive Bayes
– Logistic regression
• Feature selection
• Supervised machine learning, test and train
sets
• Model evaluation
– Precision, recall, f-measure
– Confusion matrices
With a grant received in Spring 2021, the platform
will be extended to support new learning mod-
ules on tf-idf, vector-based representations of texts,
topic modeling, and word embeddings.
Acknowledgments
This work received Seed Funding from the Inter-
acting Minds Center and additional support from
the Department of Linguistics, Cognitive Science,
and Semiotics at Aarhus University.
References
Kalina Bontcheva, Hamish Cunningham, Valentin
Tablan, Diana Maynard, and Oana Hamza. 2002.
Using GATE as an Environment for Teaching NLP.

In Proceedings of the ACL-02 Workshop on Effec-
tive tools and methodologies for teaching natural
language processing and computational linguistics,
pages 54–62.
Hamish Cunningham. 2002. GATE: A framework and
graphical development environment for robust NLP
tools and applications. In Proc. 40th annual meet-
ing of the association for computational linguistics
(ACL 2002), pages 168–175.
Markus Dickinson, Chris Brew, and Detmar Meurers.
2012.
Language and computers.
John Wiley &
Sons.
David Gunning. 2017.
Explainable artiﬁcial intelli-
gence (xai). Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency (DARPA), nd Web, 2(2).
Marc Light, Robert Arens, and Xin Lu. 2005. Web-
based interfaces for natural language processing
tools. In Proceedings of the Second ACL Workshop
on Effective Tools and Methodologies for Teaching
NLP and CL, pages 28–31.
