Teaching NLP with Bracelets and Restaurant Menus:
An Interactive Workshop for Italian Students
Ludovica Pannitto
University of Trento
ludovica.pannitto@unitn.it
Lucia Busso
Aston University
l.busso@aston.ac.uk
Claudia Roberta Combei
University of Bologna
claudiaroberta.combei@unibo.it
Lucio Messina
Independent Researcher
lucio.messina@autistici.org
Alessio Miaschi
University of Pisa
alessio.miaschi@phd.unipi.it
Gabriele Sarti
University of Trieste
gsarti@sissa.it
Malvina Nissim
University of Groningen
m.nissim@rug.nl
Abstract
Although Natural Language Processing (NLP)
is at the core of many tools young people
use in their everyday life, high school cur-
ricula (in Italy) do not include any computa-
tional linguistics education. This lack of ex-
posure makes the use of such tools less re-
sponsible than it could be and makes choos-
ing computational linguistics as a university
degree unlikely.
To raise awareness, curios-
ity, and longer-term interest in young people,
we have developed an interactive workshop de-
signed to illustrate the basic principles of NLP
and computational linguistics to high school
Italian students aged between 13 and 18 years.
The workshop takes the form of a game in
which participants play the role of machines
needing to solve some of the most common
problems a computer faces in understanding
language: from voice recognition to Markov
chains to syntactic parsing.
Participants are
guided through the workshop with the help
of instructors, who present the activities and
explain core concepts from computational lin-
guistics. The workshop was presented at nu-
merous outlets in Italy between 2019 and 2021,
both face-to-face and online.
1
Introduction
Have you used Google this week? This question
would kick off the activity that we describe in this
paper every time we delivered it. And a number of
follow-up comments would generally appear. What
for? Translating, getting some help for homework,
looking for info, writing collaboratively - and get-
ting spelling correction!
In our workshops, we talk to groups of teenagers
– even if someone has not personally used any of
those tools on a daily basis, it is utmost unlikely that
they have never interacted with a vocal assistant,
wondered how their email spam ﬁlter works, used
text predictions, or spoken to a chat-bot. Also,
applications that do not require a proactive role
of the user are growing: most of us, for example,
are subject to targeted advertising, proﬁled on the
content we produce and share on social media.
Natural Language Processing (NLP) has grown
at an incredibly fast pace, and it is at the core of
many of the tools we use every day.1 At the same
time, though, awareness of its underlying mecha-
nisms and the scientiﬁc discussion that has led to
such innovations, and even NLP’s very existence
as a scientiﬁc discipline is generally much less
widespread and is basically unknown to the general
public (Grandi and Masini, 2018).
A concurrent cause to this lack of awareness re-
sides in the fact that in more traditional high-school
formal education systems, such as the Italian one,
“young disciplines" such as Linguistics and Com-
puter Science tend to be overlooked. Grammar,
that in a high-school setting is the closest ﬁeld to
Linguistics, is rarely taught as a descriptive disci-
pline; oftentimes, it is presented as a set of norms
that one should follow in order to speak and write
correctly in a given language. While this approach
has its beneﬁts, it is particularly misleading when
it comes to what actual linguistic research is about.
Similarly, Computer Science is often misread by
the general public as an activity that deals with
computers, while aspects concerning information
technology and language processing are often ne-
1In this discussion, and throughout the paper, we conﬂate
the terms Natural Language Processing and Computational
Linguistics and use them interchangeably.
arXiv:2104.12422v2  [cs.CL]  14 May 2021

glected. This often leads to two important conse-
quences. First, despite the overwhelming amount
of NLP applications, students and citizens at large
lack the basic notions that would allow them to
fully understand technology and interact with it in
a responsible and critical way. Second, high-school
students might not be aware of Computational Lin-
guistics as an option for their university degree.
Oftentimes, students that enrol in Humanities de-
grees are mainly interested in literature and they
only get acquainted with linguistics as discipline
at university. At the same time, most Computer
Science curricula in Italian higher education rarely
focus on natural language-based applications. As a
result, Computational Linguistics as such is practi-
cally never taught before graduate studies.
As members of the Italian Association for Com-
putational Linguistics (AILC, www.ai-lc.it)
we have long felt the need to bridge this knowl-
edge gap, and made dissemination a core goal of
the Association. As a step in this direction, we
have developed a dissemination activity that cov-
ers the basic aspects of what it means to process
and analyze language computationally. This is the
ﬁrst activity of its kind developed and promoted by
AILC, and to the best of our knowledge, among the
ﬁrst in Italy at large.
This contribution describes the activity itself, the
way it was implemented as a workshop for high
school students in the context of several dissemina-
tion events, and how it can serve as a blueprint to
develop similar activities for yet new languages.
2
Genesis and Goals
We set to develop an activity whose main aim
would be to provide a broad overview of language
modeling, and, most importantly, to highlight the
open challenges in language understanding and
generation.
Without any ambition to present and explain the
actual NLP techniques to students, we rather fo-
cused on showing how language, which is usually
conceptualized by the layperson as a simple and
monolithic object, is instead a complex stratiﬁca-
tion of interconnected layers that need to be disen-
tangled in order to provide a suitable formalization.
In developing our activity, we took inspiration
from the word salad Linguistic Puzzle, as pub-
lished in Radev and Pustejovsky (2013):
Charlie and Jane had been passing notes in
class, when suddenly their teacher Mr. John-
son saw what was going on. He rushed to
the back of the class, took the note Charlie
had just passed Jane, and ripped it up, drop-
ping the pieces on the ﬂoor. Jane noticed
that he had managed to rip each word of
the message onto a separate piece of paper.
The pieces of paper were, in alphabetical
order, as follows: dog, in, is, my, school,
the. Most likely, what did Charlie’s note
originally say?
The problem includes a number of follow up
questions that encourage the student to reﬂect upon
the boundaries of sentence structure. In particular,
we found that the word salad puzzle would give us
the opportunity to introduce some of the core as-
pects of Computational Linguistics’ research. Ap-
proaching the problem with no previous knowledge
helps raising some crucial questions, such as: what
are the building blocks of our linguistic ability that
allow us to perform such a task?, how much knowl-
edge can we extract from text alone?, what does
linguistic knowledge look like?
Since the workshop here presented is the ﬁrst
activity of this kind in the Italian context, we took
inspiration from games and problems such as those
outlined in Radev and Pustejovsky (2013) and used
for the North American Computational Linguis-
tics Olympiads, similar to the ones described in
Van Halteren (2002) and Iomdin et al. (2013). Par-
ticularly, we were inspired by the institution of
(Computational) Linguistic Olympiads in making
our workshop a problem-solving game with dif-
ferent activities, each related to a different aspect
of computational language processing. Linguistic
Olympiads are now an established annual event in
many parts of the world since they ﬁrst took place
in Moscow in 1965. In these competitions students
(generally of high-school age) are faced with lin-
guistic problems of varying nature, that require
participants to use problem-solving abilities to un-
cover underlying patterns or rules in the data. For
an in-depth discussion of the history and diffusion
of Linguistic Olympiads in the world, see Derzhan-
ski and Payne (2010) and Littell et al. (2013).
In the choice of algorithms to include in our
dissemination activity, we decided to leave aside
neural networks and instead focus on traditional
statistical approaches, both for historical reasons
and for the fact that these convey more clearly the
distinction between different layers of linguistic in-
formation and their roles in language modeling. A

Activity

Aim
1. Get to know a (computational) linguist
10’
collaboratively build a deﬁnition for linguistics as a
study ﬁeld
2. Are computers able to hear?
15’
familiarize with the concept of simulation of humans’
speech perception abilities
3. Are computers able to read?
30’
introduce corpora as sources of linguistic knowledge
and statistical patterns as structural aspects of lan-
guage
4. Do computers know grammar?
30’
introduce human annotation and meta-linguistic
knowledge as powerful research tools
5. Becoming a computational linguist
5’
evaluate pros and cons of the two presented ap-
proaches, future directions and discuss about what’s
needed to become a computational linguist
Table 1: Sections of the activity, with their planned duration and a broad aim for each of them.
brief discussion of most recent NLP technologies,
including the application of neural networks, is in-
cluded in the ﬁnal part of the workshop (Sec. 3.5).
The activity is targeted at students in their last
year of middle school (13 years of age) or older.
While we believe 13 is a good entry point, there
isn’t an actual upper-bound, since the activity can
be enjoyed by people of any older age (though
in practice participation was mainly offered to
schools, with the oldest students being 18-19). We
thought this would be the appropriate target audi-
ence of this workshop for two main reasons. On
the one hand, we believe that coming to the activity
with a richer metalinguistic background, typically
acquired during the ﬁrst Italian school cycle, would
be beneﬁcial for the attendees to better grasp the
differences between the scientiﬁc approach to lan-
guage and the more prescriptive approach they are
exposed to in school. On the other hand we also
conceived the activity as a way of helping students
in their future study choices: we therefore included
both students attending their last year of middle
school and therefore about to choose a high school
curriculum as well as high school students, the lat-
ter in order to provide them with more options for
their university choices.
3
The activity
We planned our dissemination activity for a 90
minutes time slot, divided into ﬁve parts, as detailed
in Table 1.
3.1
Get to know a (computational) linguist
The ﬁrst 15 minutes of the workshop are organized
both as an ice-breaker activity for the attendees,
and as a brief introduction to linguistics and com-
putational linguistics more speciﬁcally.
During the introduction we tried to demystify
some common misconceptions about linguistics,
(i.e., a linguist knows many languages, linguists get
sometimes confused with speech therapists, a lin-
guist will correct my grammar, etc.): we presented
participants with a list of possible deﬁnitions, and
they had to identify appropriate ones. We broadly
deﬁned linguistics as the study of language as a bio-
logical, psychological, and cultural object. Compu-
tational Linguistics was then introduced both as a
commercial and engineering-oriented ﬁeld, as well
as a purely scientiﬁc research discipline.2
We also brieﬂy discussed linguistic questions
with participants as an example of the kind of prob-
lems that a linguist tries to approach during their re-
search activity. These included: "How many ways
of pronouncing n do we have in Italian?", "Do num-
bers from one to ten exist in all languages?".
For the following parts of the activity, the intro-
duction to each sub-part was dedicated to a reﬂec-
tion upon what it means for us humans to hear,
read and understand grammar, and whether there
is a difference when the same tasks are performed
by computers.
3.2
Are computers able to hear?
As vocal assistants such as Alexa, Siri, Google
Home etc. have become increasingly popular, we
chose them as tangible examples of NLP technolo-
gies to kick-off the games. The aim of this section
2We relied on the deﬁnition reported in https:
//www.thebritishacademy.ac.uk/blog/
what-computational-linguistics/.

of the workshop was to demonstrate two points:
• computers do not necessarily solve linguistic
tasks the way we solve them; they are there-
fore simulating our abilities without replicat-
ing them;
• consequently, the concepts of easy and difﬁ-
cult tasks have to be carefully revised when
applied to language models.
We introduced the McGurk effect (McGurk and
MacDonald, 1976), to clarify how hearing lan-
guage is a complex task in itself, involving a broad
set of aspects beyond simple sound perception,
such as the visual system as well as the expec-
tations regarding the upcoming input. Computers
on the other hand hear on the basis of an audio
signal that is processed (Figure 1), at least in the
most traditional and well-established architectures,
without access to higher level linguistic knowledge
or information from the communicative context.
We then brieﬂy presented speech recognition as a
direct optimization task (i.e., given an audio signal,
ﬁnd the word in a given database that maximises the
probability of being associated to that signal) and
introduced one of the major challenges that speech
recognition models are still facing, namely the abil-
ity to adapt to different speech styles (i.e., speakers
of different language varieties and dialects, non-
native speakers, speakers with impairments etc.).
In order to further demonstrate this, we tested
the attendees’ ability to adapt their hearing skills
to different speech varieties by making them hear
conversations in various Italian regional accents.3
While we asked attendees to guess the name of
the region of the speakers, the actual aim was to
show how we easily adapt to understand speech,
differently from speech recognition systems.
3.3
Are computers able to read?
From this moment on, the attendees worked on
written text. The activity described in this section
was aimed at showing how salient aspects related
to language structure can be derived from the sta-
tistical properties of language.
Following the “Word Salad” puzzle (Radev and
Pustejovsky, 2013), the ability of reading was pre-
sented as follows: given a set of words, are we
able to rearrange them in a plausible sentence-like
order? We demonstrated how this is an easy task
3Conversations were extracted from corpus CLIPS (Al-
bano Leoni et al., 2007).
Figure 1: Representation of the audio signal for the ital-
ian word destra (en. right). This was used to show how
information coming from audio signals can be repre-
sented in a way that easily allows the computer to per-
form a pattern matching task, but would be impossible
to process for humans.
for human beings, when one deals with a language
they are familiar with (Figure 2), while, generally
one may not be able to perform the same task in
case of unknown languages (Figure 3), where each
possible ordering seems equally plausible.
Figure 2: A set of Italian words (from the top left cor-
ner, en. is, garden, in, my, the, dog): when asked to re-
arrange them into a sentence, participants would ﬁrst
come up with the most likely ordering (i.e., il mio cane
è nel giardino, en. my dog is in the garden) and if
prompted they would then produce more creative sen-
tences (i.e., il cane nel giardino è mio, en. the dog in
the garden is mine). They would however never con-
sider ungrammatical sequences as possible sentences.
We therefore gave the attendees a deck of un-
known, mysterious tokens (left card in Figure 4)
and asked them to come up with the most plausi-
ble sentence that contained all of them. The cards
represented either Italian or English words (par-
ticipants were divided into two teams, each one
dealing with a different masked language) which
had however been transliterated into an unknown
alphabet. While this was obviously an impossible
task to solve, it gave us the opportunity to introduce
a notion of probability in the linguistic realm. We
cast it as the expectation that we humans bear on

Figure 3: The ﬁgure depicts the same situation as Fig-
ure 2, this time with non-words.
Figure 4: Example cards, both showing a word. Left:
a card for the ﬁrst activity, with a button loop to thread
it in a sentence. Right: a card for the second activity,
with part of speech (number) at the bottom.
the appearance of a speciﬁc linguistic sequence,
and the subsequent need for a source of linguistic
knowledge to implement the same notion.
When asked to perform the same task on the
words of Figure 2, participants produced sentences
in a quite consistent order, and the most prototyp-
ical sentences (e.g., il mio cane è nel giardino,
en. my dog is in the garden) were usually elicited
before some less typical ones (e.g., il cane nel gi-
ardino è mio, en. the dog in the garden is mine),
while agrammatical sentences (i.e., random permu-
tations) were never produced.
We justiﬁed their responses by explaining that
humans accumulate a great amount of linguistic
knowledge throughout their lifetime that helps
them reﬁne these expectations, while machines are
instead in principle unbiased towards having any
speciﬁc preference. This observation allowed us to
introduce participants to the notion of corpus as a
large collection of linguistic data that mimics the
amount of data we are exposed to as humans.
Each team was then provided with a corpus writ-
ten in an unknown language (approximately 60 sen-
tences hand-crafted by transliterating a portion of
the “Snow White” tale into a mysterious alphabet
Figure 5). Concurrently, we introduced a simple
algorithm to tell apart sentence-like orderings of
the provided tokens from the random ones.
The algorithm, which we called The bracelet
method (Figure 6), is based on the Markov Chain
Figure 5: The ﬁgure shows one of the corpora that was
given to participants, 5 A3 tables containing approx.
60 transliterated sentences from the “Snow White”
fairy tale, and tokens with buttonholes that had to be
searched in the corpus and threaded into sentences.
procedure: in a scenario similar to that of lining
pearls up to form a bracelet, participants could
decompose the task of forming up a sentence into
smaller tasks. To make the operation more concrete,
we equipped each card with a button loop as shown
in Figure 4: this way cards could be physically
threaded together to form a sentence.
The ﬁrst step consisted in choosing the ﬁrst word,
for the beginning of the sentence. Since partic-
ipants were facing a language they didn’t know,
they were not aware of language structures nor of
the meaning of the tokens. In such a situation, they
could decide whether it was plausible to use a given
word at the beginning of a sentence just by look-
ing up in the corpus sentences that began the same
way. If they found at least one sentence that began
with the same word, it meant that that was a licit
position and they could use it to start the sentence.
The activity continued as follows: sticking to the
bracelet metaphor, participants needed to select and
insert the following "pearl" into the thread: ideally
the pearl should pair well with the previous one, as
we might want to avoid colour mismatch (e.g., it
is well known that blue and green do not go well
together). The metaphor highlights therefore a core
aspect that holds true for language as well, namely
that we can condition our choice on a variable num-
ber of previous choices, and this will inﬂuence the
complexity of the obtained pattern.
The activity resulted in a number of sentence-
bracelets, as shown in Figure 7, that were then kept
aside to be translated at the end of the workshop.
3.4
Do computers know grammar?
While the previous game highlighted the impor-
tance of statistical information in NLP, in accor-

Figure 6: The bracelet method applied on the Italian
words è, mio, giardino, nel (en. is, my, garden, in). The
algorithm is based on bigram co-occurrences, so the
choice for each word is based solely on the previously
chosen one. Colors indicate probabilities, which are
computed based only on the previously chosen word
cane (en. dog). The ﬁrst token, il (en. the), appears
grayed as it is ignored for the choice.
Figure 7: The ﬁgure shows the result of a bracelet
sequence: tokens are threaded together based on co-
occurrences in the corpus.
dance with the overall aim of the activity, we also
wanted to introduce some of the algorithms that are
more deeply rooted in the linguistic tradition.
In order to do so, we introduced the notion of
grammar as a descriptive abstraction over a set of
examples. Out of the linguistic context, to exem-
plify this notion of grammar metaphorically, we
presented participants with a set of possible restau-
rant menus (Figure 8), and encouraged them to
come up with the general rule that the restaurant
owner must have had in mind when choosing those
combinations. All menus were built as a traditional
Italian full meal, composed by two main dishes and
a dessert. We perpetuated the metaphor showing
how, once a set of rules is deﬁned, these can be
used both to decide if a new menu is likely to be
part of the same set (Figure 9) and also to generate
new meals (Figure 10).
This metaphor, which was readily grasped by
most participants, was useful to show how different
components can be combined together in a mean-
Figure 8: Each block in the image corresponds to a pos-
sible Italian full meal, consisting of: ﬁrst course (e.g.
fusilli al pomodoro), second course (e.g. pollo agli as-
paragi) and dessert (e.g. pannacotta).
Figure 9: Step-by-step process to assess the validity of
a given menu. In the top-right corner the rules for cre-
ating a full meal are shown . Categories are deﬁned re-
cursively until each course that constitute the full menu
is obtained and therefore reduced to the initial category
of a pasto (en. meal).
Figure 10: Process ﬂow for creating a new meal from
the initial category pasto (en. meal) up to the leaves
containing terminal symbols such as penne, funghi,
pollo etc. (en., a type of pasta, mushrooms, chicken).
The rules used to generate are the same used for the
reduction process, reported in Figure 9.
ingful way, as it happens in grammar. Before mov-
ing back to the corpus, we showed them what a
formal grammar of the menus could look like.
We had previously annotated the corpus with

syntactic and morpho-syntactic information (i.e.,
part of speech), as shown in Figures 5 and 12. We
therefore asked participants to extract from the cor-
pus a possible grammar, namely a set of attested
rules and use them to generate a new sentence.
In order to write the grammar, participants were
given several physical materials: felt strips repro-
ducing the colors of the annotation, a deck of cards
with numbers (identifying parts of speech) and a
deck of “=” symbols (Figure 11).
Figure 11: A set of rules extracted during the activity
from the corpus. Each rule is made of felt strips for
phrases, cards with numbers indicating parts of speech,
and “=” cards.
With a new deck of words (Figure 4, right panel),
not all of which present in the corpus, participants
had to generate a sentence using the previously
composed rules.
3.5
Becoming a computational linguist
At this point, participants had created a number
of sentences by means of the two techniques de-
scribed above. It is now time to discover that the
mysterious languages they worked on were actually
English and Italian. This was achieved in practice
by superimposing a Plexiglas frame on the A3 cor-
pus pages (Figure 13): the true nature of the cor-
pora was this way revealed as the participants could
see the original texts (in Italian and English) and
translate the sentences they had created previously.
The outcome of the activity stimulated discus-
sion amongst the participants, highlighting pros
and cons of each approach and how could they be
integrated into real-life technologies. Our work-
shop ended with a brief description of more recent
NLP technologies and their commercial applica-
tions, such as recommender systems, automatic
translation, text completion, etc.
Since the target audience consisted mostly of
middle- and high-school students, we offered an
overview of what it takes to become a computa-
Figure 12: Example of categories (it. Categorie), e.g.
phrases and POS tags, and rules (it. Regole) for the sen-
tence "lo specchio rispose a la regina" (en. the mirror
answered to the queen).
Figure 13: A trial session of the workshop (the picture
shows some of the tutors explaining the game to AILC
members): the original language of the corpus has just
been revealed by superimposing Plexiglas supports on
the corpus tables.
tional linguist and where one could study computa-
tional linguistics in Italy.
4
The workshop in action
The activity – here outlined in its complete and
original form – was presented in various outlets
during the last year and a half.
It was initially designed for the 2019 edition of
the “Bergamo Scienza” Science Festival4, where it
was presented live to over 450 participants in the
course of two weeks. A simpliﬁed "print-and-play"
version of the workshop was also presented at the
2020 edition of the SISSA5 Student Day.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, all other pre-
sentations of the activity had to be moved online.
Transposing the workshop crucially meant striving
to maintaining the interactive nature of the activi-
ties without the possibility of meeting face to face.
4https://festival.bergamoscienza.it/
5https://www.sissa.it/

To do so, we integrated our original presentation on
Google slides with the interactive presentation soft-
ware Mentimeter6 - which we used for questions,
polling and quizzes. The corpus and tokens were
presented via a web interface created especially for
this purpose7.
The interface presented the masked corpus, com-
plete with POS tags and syntactic annotations. For
the bracelet activity participants were automatically
assigned a number of tokens which they could use
to build a sentence by simply dragging and drop-
ping them. (Figures 14 and 15).
This online version was crafted in the ﬁrst place
to be presented at “Festival della Scienza”8 (Fig-
ure 16), a science festival primarily aimed at school
students held each year in Genoa, where multi-
ple 45’ sessions of the workshop were run over
the course of two days. The fourth activity (Sec-
tion 3.4) involved "bootstrapping" syntactic rules
based only on our color-based annotation.
To
simplify online interaction, we only used the un-
masked Italian version of the corpus and partic-
ipants played collectively, helping each other to
build sentences and grammatical rules: rules were
collected through a Mentimeter poll, while a sen-
tence was generated in a guided demonstration by
the presenter of the workshop.
Overall, the workshop transposed really well
online, and was extremely well-received in this ver-
sion as well. The online modality also allowed us
to present it to a more vast and varied audience
than just students: a version for the general pub-
lic was presented at European Researchers’ Night
(Bright Night9) at the University of Pisa, thanks to
a collaboration with the Computational Linguistics
Laboratory10 and ILC-CNR11 in November 2020,
a dedicated session was run for the High school
ITS Buzzi12 (Prato, Italy) in December 2020, and
during the second edition of the Science Web Fes-
tival13 in April 2021.
5
Reusability: this activity as a blueprint
As mentioned in Section 1, our activity was in-
spired by a collection of English-language prob-
6https://www.menti.com/
7A demo of the interface can be found at https://
donde.altervista.org/
8http://www.festivalscienza.it
9https://www.bright-night.it/
10http://colinglab.humnet.unipi.it/
11http://www.ilc.cnr.it/
12https://www.tulliobuzzi.edu.it/
13https://www.sciencewebfestival.it/
lems created for students participating in the Com-
putational Linguistics Olympiad (Radev and Puste-
jovsky, 2013).
We adapted the original activity to the Italian
language and context. While we tried to choose
widely shared linguistic principles to communi-
cate, the operation of adapting the game to a dif-
ferent language obviously requires language spe-
ciﬁc choices and details, which would have to be
re-evaluated when porting the activity to yet new
languages. Particularly, since the materials have
been developed for Italian, it might be the case
that transposition is not straightforward for some
languages. However, we believe that the general
structure of our workshop can serve as a blueprint
for extension to new languages. For this reason
all the relevant materials are made available in a
dedicated repository. The repository includes both
scripts to reproduce our activity as well as a gen-
eral set of insights/recommendations regarding the
structure and principles of the workshop.
All of the scripts necessary to produce the ma-
terials used in the game’s workﬂow in a different
language are made available in our open-access
repository14. To get the activity into production
using the scripts provided, one only needs to create
an annotated corpus in the target language.
Our speciﬁc choice of “Snow White” as a cor-
pus is motivated by the fact that the story can be
phrased in a fairly repetitive formulation, with two
advantages. One is that enough bigrams are present
that enable the generation of new sentences with
the bracelet method. The other one is that the story
contains recognizable characters (e.g., the dwarfs,
the evil queen etc.), so that, when the unmasked
text is revealed, the process results intuitively trans-
parent. Such characteristics are desirable for the
activity, and should be kept in mind when choosing
a new text for a new language.
In addition to sharing scripts, we are sharing here
the core structure and principles the workshop re-
lies on, which can be reproduced when replicating
the activity also for a different language.
Parts 1&2
At the beginning of the workshop (see
Section 3.2) we show the limits of current tech-
nologies, in particular in terms of adaptability. To
this end, we exploited diatopic variations, such
as Italian regional accents, since this is an aspect
readily available to Italian students. In the con-
14https://bitbucket.org/melfnt/
malvisindi

Figure 14: Interface of the online website used for the "bracelet" game (section 3.3) during the online workshops.
Players can collaboratively drag and drop their card from the bottom left panel to form sentences in the top-left
panel. The corpus is shown in the right panel.
Figure 15: After the games the website shows the translation of the corpus (see for example line 1) and cards.
text of other languages, the same concept could be
however shown by different means, such as the in-
ﬂuence of jargon or minority languages, or simply
differences in accuracy depending on, age or other
socio-demographic and socio-cultural variables.
Part 3
The next part of the activity (Section 3.3)
is the most easily reproducible in a different lan-
guage as it only exploits statistical co-occurrences
as a cue for linguistic structure. The only pre-
requisite here is the availability of a sufﬁciently
standardized tokenization for the language of inter-
est. As described above, we masked the language
through a transliteration system: this was achieved
either substituting words with sequences of sym-
bols, or with non-words. In the case of non-words,
these were generated by manually deﬁning a series
of phonotactic constraints for Italian, which should
be adapted to the target language.
The main message to be conveyed through this
activity is that language is a complex system; we
did this disentangling semantics from the purely
symbolic tier, which is the one computers most
commonly manipulate.
Part 4
The following part of the activity (Sec-
tion 3.4) focuses on the expressive power residing
in the deﬁnition of auxiliary categories as descrip-
tors of linguistic evidence. We achieved this by sim-
plifying a constituent-based annotation for our cor-

Figure 16: The picture was taken during a workshop session at “Festival della Scienza” in Genoa, in October 2020.
Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, students were participating remotely. The left panel shows the tutor handling
grammatical categories (colored cards for syntactic phrases and letters for parts of speech); the right panel shows a
screenshot of the slides employed during the activity. Students could see both panels as slides were streamed while
a webcam was capturing the tutor’s movements.
pus: having continuous constituents easily allowed
for the physical implementation of re-writing rules
(i.e., participants had some physical constituents
and tokens that could be used to simulate the gen-
eration process). We built categories in order to
extract from the text a simple regular grammar,
and we were especially careful about the fact that
both the Italian and the English corpus showed a
similar structure and therefore complexity level.
More speciﬁcally, we restricted to ﬁve types of
higher-level categories that acted as phrases (i.e.,
sentence, noun phrase, verb phrase, prepositional
phrase, subordinate clause): this is of course a huge
simpliﬁcation and, for the sake of the activity, we
overlooked some relevant linguistic phenomena.
We reckon that this approach might not be
portable to languages that exhibit a ﬂexible word
order, so alternative solutions should be sought.
Part 5
The last section of the activity was dedi-
cated to a discussion on the presented methods for
language generation. After that and depending on
the audience, we presented some options to pursue
studies in Computational Linguistics in Italy, which
would of course have to be adapted to the target
social context. Lay publications concerned with
Computational Linguistics are also unfortunately
not very common in Italy, therefore we took the
opportunity to provide participants with some sug-
gestions for further readings (Masini and Grandi,
2017).
6
Looking back and ahead
In the previous sections we described an interactive
workshop designed to illustrate the basic princi-
ples of Computational Linguistics to young Italian
students. It is the ﬁrst activity of its kind to be de-
signed by the Italian Association for Computational
Linguistics and among the ﬁrst dissemination activ-
ities in Italy for Computational Linguistics directed
to young students.
The activity had the broad aim of increasing
awareness towards applications based on language
technology, and introduce students to the study of
language as a scientiﬁc discipline.
We run the activity in both face-to-face and, due
to COVID-19, online form: generally speaking, we
received enthusiastic feedback both from younger
participants and from the more general public. We
adapted the activity to a variety of formats and time-
slots, ranging from 30 to 90 minutes: the amount
of time required to approach the game and get ac-
quainted with the concepts is of course variable,
and depends on the participants’ background and
on the level of engagement that is expected of them.
Generally speaking 45 minutes are enough for a
presentation including some interaction with the
audience, especially in the online setting, but at
least 90 minutes are needed for the participants to
fully experiment with the hands-on activity.
We want to speciﬁcally stress how time is a cen-
tral ingredient in the activity. While the game-
related aspects remained engaging and fun even
in the shortened, online versions, in order to fully
grasp the mechanisms underlying the presented al-
gorithms longer sessions would be needed. In fact,
we often felt that more time would be beneﬁcial for
a deeper discussion about language as an object of
study itself, and about language as data on which
theories can be built. In particular, shorter time-
slots or less guided activities enhance the risk of

participants approaching the challenge as a puzzle
that they can solve regardless of linguistic knowl-
edge. This is because the approach to language we
are presenting is entirely new to our audience, and
not only to the younger students.
Although we did not have a formal system in
place to collect systematic feedback, the overall
response across venues and conditions has been
extremely positive.15 Curiosity and engagement
of participants remained high both onsite and on-
line, and we received many questions on several
aspects of Natural Language Processing and neural
networks, as well as concerning its role in Artiﬁcial
Intelligence at large.
The participants’ enthusiastic questions gave us
many ideas for future dissemination activities. In
fact, the technological world is advancing fast and
we ﬁrmly believe that it is necessary to spread more
awareness on the inner workings of AI-based tech-
nologies, to develop a society-level conscience to
approach them in a critical way.
The activity described in this paper was targeted
at middle to high-school students as well as the gen-
eral public. It would be interesting to engage with
a younger audience as well, as communicating the
study and (computational) modelling of language
to them would raise awareness towards language
studies as a scientiﬁc discipline.
For our activity, we took inspiration from one of
the problems proposed in Radev and Pustejovsky
(2013). Puzzles such as the ones presented at the
Computational Linguistics Competitions are a great
way to introduce both important challenges and the
methodology to solve them, as they stimulate stu-
dents to investigate linguistic aspects in a bottom-
up fashion. Organizing the competition in Italy
would represent a bigger project for our associa-
tion, to be addressed in the coming years.
Acknowledgements
The workshop has been developed with help and
support from many parties. We would like to thank
them all here. First and foremost, all the partici-
pants that enthusiastically played along and made
the activity a success. Along with them, four tutors
and science animators helped us greatly in putting
our ideas into practice. We are also grateful to Berg-
amoScienza, Festival della Scienza, Science Web
15Following one reviewer’s suggestion, we have imple-
mented such a system for our latest presentation at the Science
Web Festival 2021 as a Google form that we circulated among
participants at the end of the presentation.
Festival for hosting the activity during the festivals,
to ILC-CNR “Antonio Zampolli" and ColingLab
(University of Pisa) for hosting us during the Eu-
ropean Researchers’ Night, and to the Scuola In-
ternazionale Superiore di Studi Avanzati (SISSA)
and ITI Tullio Buzzi. We are also grateful to Dr.
Mirko Lai, who has collaborated on the develop-
ment of the web interface for the online versions of
our activity. We would like to thank AILC (Italian
Association of Computational Linguistics) for en-
couraging us to design the activity and supporting
us throughout the process. Last but not least, we
thank the true hero of our workshop: GingerCat16.
References
Federico Albano Leoni, Francesco Cutugno, and Re-
nata Savy. 2007.
Clips (corpora e lessici di ital-
iano parlato e scritto). Linguistica computazionale:
ricerche monolingui e multilingui.
Ivan A Derzhanski and Thomas Payne. 2010. The lin-
guistics olympiads: Academic competitions in lin-
guistics for secondary school students. Linguistics
at school: language awareness in primary and sec-
ondary education, pages 213–26.
Nicola Grandi and Francesca Masini. 2018. Perché la
linguistica ha bisogno di divulgazione (e viceversa).
In N. Grandi and F. Masini, editors, La linguistica
della divulgazione, la divulgazione della linguistica.
Atti del IV Convegno Interannuale SLI nuova serie,
pages 5–12. SLI, Roma.
Boris Iomdin, Alexander Piperski, and Anton Somin.
2013.
Linguistic problems based on text corpora.
In Proceedings of the Fourth Workshop on Teaching
NLP and CL, pages 9–17.
Patrick Littell, Lori Levin, Jason Eisner, and Dragomir
Radev. 2013. Introducing computational concepts in
a linguistics olympiad. In Proceedings of the Fourth
Workshop on Teaching NLP and CL, pages 18–26.
Francesca Masini and Nicola Grandi. 2017. Tutto ciò
che hai sempre voluto sapere sul linguaggio e sulle
lingue. Caissa Italia.
Harry McGurk and John MacDonald. 1976. Hearing
lips and seeing voices. Nature, 264(5588):746–748.
Dragomir Radev and James Pustejovsky. 2013. Puzzles
in logic, languages and computation: the red book.
Springer.
Hans Van Halteren. 2002.
Teaching nlp/cl through
games: The case of parsing. In Proceedings of the
ACL-02 Workshop on Effective Tools and Methodolo-
gies for Teaching Natural Language Processing and
Computational Linguistics, pages 1–9.
16https://icons8.com/illustrations/
style--ginger-cat-1
